
CANDY-MAKING AT HOME

BY

MARY M. WRIGHT


    TWO HUNDRED WAYS TO MAKE
    CANDY WITH HOME FLAVOR
    AND PROFESSIONAL FINISH

    PHILADELPHIA
    THE PENN PUBLISHING COMPANY
    1915




    COPYRIGHT 1915 BY THE PENN PUBLISHING COMPANY

    Candy-Making at Home




Contents


       I. GENERAL DIRECTIONS FOR CANDY-MAKING         11

    Utensils                                           14
    Ingredients                                        16
    A Few Things the Candy-Maker Should Know           17
    The Coloring and Flavoring                         19


      II. THE MAKING OF FONDANT                        21

    Fondant                                            23
    Chocolate Fondant                                  25
    Maple Fondant                                      26


     III. HARD CANDIES                                 29

    Chocolate Chips                                    31
    Cinnamon Jibb                                      32
    Fig Brittle                                        32
    Butter-Scotch                                      32
    French Butter-Scotch                               33
    Maple Panocha                                      33
    Horehound Candy                                    34
    Chocolate Taffy                                    34
    Molasses Taffy                                     35
    Nut Taffy                                          35
    Lemon Stick Candy                                  35
    Peppermint Stick Candy                             36
    Strawberry Drops                                   36
    Honey Peppermint Tablets                           37
    Maple Tablets                                      37
    Fruit Tablets                                      38
    Rose Nougat                                        38
    Raisin Stickies                                    39
    Vanilla Taffy                                      39
    Salt Water Taffy                                   40
    Taffy Dreams With Nut Centers                      40


      IV. FUDGES AND CARAMELS                          43

    Chocolate Fudge                                    45
    Maple Sugar Fudge                                  46
    Burnt Almond Fudge                                 46
    Coffee Fudge                                       47
    Marshmallow Fudge                                  47
    Peanut Fudge                                       48
    Fig Fudge                                          48
    Divinity Fudge                                     48
    Cocoanut Fudge                                     49
    Fruit Fudge                                        49
    Cinnamon Fudge                                     50
    Pineapple Fudge                                    50
    Layer Fudges                                       50
    Cocoanut Marshmallow Fudge                         51
    Another Cocoanut Marshmallow Fudge                 51
    Barley Fudge                                       52
    Coffee Caramels                                    52
    Cocoanut Caramels                                  53
    Chocolate Caramels                                 53
    Sultana Caramels                                   54
    Nut Chocolate Caramels                             54
    Vanilla Caramels                                   55
    Strawberry Caramels                                55
    Jelly Caramels                                     55
    Chocolate Cream Caramels                           56
    Molasses Caramels                                  57
    Franconia Caramels                                 57
    Tutti-Frutti Caramels                              57
    Butternut Caramels                                 58
    Carrot Caramels                                    58


       V. NUT CANDIES                                  61

    Chocolate Almonds                                  63
    Brown Almond Nougat                                63
    White Nougat                                       64
    Peanut Brittle                                     65
    Almond Toffee                                      65
    Southern Hazelnut Toffee                           66
    Mexican Panocha                                    66
    Pralines                                           67
    Cream Nut Bars                                     67
    Maple and Butternut Cream                          68
    Chocolate Nut Candy                                68
    Nut Bonbons                                        68
    Candied Chestnuts                                  69
    Glac√© Nuts                                         70
    Walnut Bonbons                                     71
    Peanut Molasses Candy                              71
    Mexican Nut Confection                             72
    Nut Loaf                                           72
    Nut Stuffed Fruit                                  73
    Cherry and Almond Confection                       73


      VI. FRUIT CANDIES                                75

    Quince Confections                                 79
    Maraschino Drops                                   79
    Strawberry Divinity Fudge                          79
    Tutti-Frutti Cream                                 80
    Pear Caramels                                      81
    Marzipan Fruit Candies                             81
    Surprise Dates                                     82
    Marshmallow Fruit Fudge                            83
    Frosted Fruit Fudge                                83
    Cherry Foam                                        84
    Fig Favorites                                      85
    Pineapple Marshmallows                             85
    Fruit Chocolate Balls                              86
    Watermelon Dainty                                  86
    Date Delight                                       87
    Stuffed Prunes                                     87
    Fruit Roll                                         88
    Jelly Cake Candy                                   88


     VII. SEA FOAM AND CREAM CANDIES                   91

    Ginger Creams                                      93
    Lemon Creams                                       94
    Peppermint Creams                                  94
    Maple Creams                                       95
    Walnut Creams                                      95
    Cocoanut Creams                                    95
    Honey Creams                                       96
    Vanilla Sea Foam                                   96
    Maple Foam                                         97
    Candied Cherry Foam                                97
    Nut Foam Chocolates                                98
    Maple Delight                                      99


    VIII. BONBONS                                     101

    Chocolate Creams                                  103
    Chocolate Creams With Fruit Centers               104
    Chocolate Creams With Nut Centers                 106
    How to Coat Chocolate Creams                      108
    Bonbons Made With Cocoanut                        110
    Nut Bonbons                                       112
    Fruit Bonbons                                     113
    Assorted Bonbons                                  115
    How to Dip With Fondant                           117
    Oriental Bonbons                                  118


      IX. POP-CORN SWEETS                             121

    Molasses Pop-Corn Balls                           124
    Chocolate Pop-Corn Balls                          124
    Snow Pop-Corn Balls                               125
    Ice Pop-Corn Balls                                126
    Pop-Corn Dainty                                   126
    Crystallized Pop-Corn                             127
    Pop-Corn Bars                                     128
    Maple Pop-Corn Bars                               128
    Pop-Corn Macaroons                                129
    Cherokee Crisp                                    129
    Pop-Corn Almond Nougat                            130
    Pop-Corn Brittle                                  130
    Pop-Corn Fudge                                    131


       X. MACAROONS AND MISCELLANEOUS SWEETS          133

    Almond Macaroons                                  135
    Cream Macaroons                                   135
    Jasmine Macaroons                                 136
    Queen Macaroons                                   136
    Chocolate Macaroons                               136
    Cocoanut Macaroons                                137
    Hickory-Nut Macaroons                             137
    Peanut Macaroons                                  137
    Cherry Macaroons                                  138
    Coffee Macaroons                                  138
    Chocolate Macaroons                               139
    Pistachio Macaroons                               139
    Cinnamon Macaroons                                140
    Marshmallows                                      140
    Cocoanut Marshmallows                             141
    Orange Marshmallows                               141
    Buttercups                                        142
    Hodge-Podge Candy                                 143
    Candied Sweet Potato Balls                        144
    Persian Confection                                144
    Turkish Confection                                145
    Arabian Confection                                146
    Honeycomb Candy                                   146
    Turkish Delight                                   147
    Apple Sweetmeats                                  147
    Chocolate Arabics                                 148
    Oriental Bonbons                                  148
    Candy Potatoes                                    149
    Divinity Hash                                     149


      XI. CAKE CONFECTIONERY AND LITTLE SWEETS        151

    Bonbon Cakes                                      153
    Spice Nuts                                        157
    Chocolate Nuts                                    158
    Walnut Wafers                                     158
    Peanut Jumbles                                    159
    Cocoanut Jumbles                                  159
    Fruit Rocks                                       160
    Raisin Spirals                                    161
    Fruit Bars                                        161
    Maple Drops                                       162
    Ginger Chips                                      162
    Ginger Wafers                                     163
    Marshmallow Cakes                                 163
    Ginger Nuts                                       164
    German Ginger Balls                               165
    Cinnamon Crisps                                   165
    Chocolate Sticks                                  166
    Orange Cakes                                      166
    Cocoanut Drops                                    167
    Almond Cakes                                      167
    Peanut Wafers                                     168
    German Wafers                                     168
    Japanese Wafers                                   169
    English Wafers                                    169
    Delicious Tea Cookies                             170
    Raisin Cookies                                    170
    Love Diamonds                                     171
    Marmalade Diamonds                                171
    Lemon Cakes                                       172
    Maple Nut Wafers                                  172
    Vanilla Wafers                                    173
    Chocolate Diamonds                                173
    Coriander Cakes                                   174
    Peach Blossom Cakes                               175
    Wild Rose Cakes                                   175
    Cream Nut Puffs                                   176
    Spice Fingers                                     177
    Caraway Cookies                                   178
    Daisy Cakes                                       178
    Vanilla Sugar Cakes                               179
    Chocolate Ginger Drops                            179
    Cocoanut Fruit Drops                              180
    Preserved Fruit Dainties                          181
    Jelly Jumbles                                     181
    Chocolate Nut Wafers                              182
    Lady Fingers                                      182
    Fruit Puffs                                       183
    Nut Tarts                                         184

    INDEX                                             185





Candy-Making at Home




CHAPTER I

GENERAL DIRECTIONS FOR CANDY-MAKING


WE find it quite possible to make just as delicious candy at home as can
be bought of the most famous manufacturers. Of course there are a few
kinds of candies that can be made only with the aid of special
machinery; but there are enough kinds that can be made with utensils
found in the ordinary kitchen (with a few more added) to make all the
variety that one may wish for. By making our own candies in the home we
have the assurance that they are at least pure and clean, and that they
will cost us no more than the cheaper grades of candy. Candy-making is
very fascinating, and there is no reason whatever why one cannot be a
successful candy-maker after a few trials at it. In this first chapter
we give a few general directions in candy-making that will make it
easier to carry out all the recipes that follow.


UTENSILS

All the utensils that are needed in candy-making are saucepans of
granite or porcelain, a double boiler, spoons, a spatula, candy dipper,
platter or marble slab, a thermometer, and boxes or pans in which to
mold certain kinds of candies. Bonbon molds are useful for molding
bonbons, but are not necessary as they can easily be molded with the
fingers. A thermometer is not absolutely necessary since one can learn
to get the different stages by dropping and testing the syrup in cold
water; but the thermometer makes it much easier to get the syrup cooked
to exactly the right degree. In buying a thermometer choose one that is
guaranteed by its maker, since some thermometers are apt to break when
the syrup is boiled to a high degree as it must be in making the hard
candies. There are small, reliable candy thermometers on the market that
do not cost a great deal, and make it much easier for the candy-maker.

While a platter can be used instead of a marble slab in making fondant
and some other candies, yet, since the marble is naturally cool, the
candy syrups will cool much more quickly on it and for this reason is
desirable.

In making taffies or any candy that requires pulling a hook is very
useful. One can handle more at a time with a hook and pulling makes it
lighter and nicer.

A sugar scraper proves very useful when it comes to scraping down maple
sugar and chocolate; and a food chopper is very convenient when chopping
nuts and fruits used in candy-making.

A smooth piece of tin can be used for dropping or placing the candies
on, after they are made to set and cool; but paraffine paper will take
its place very well. One can scarcely get along without this paper in
candy-making, for it is very useful in lining candy-boxes when they are
to be used as molds, and candies or bonbons that are liable to become
sticky can be wrapped in it. A few bowls for dipping purposes will be
needed.


INGREDIENTS

Granulated sugar is the kind most frequently used in candy-making. To
get the best results it should be fine-grained and of the best quality.
Confectioner's sugar or powdered sugar is used chiefly to roll or dust
candies with.

Almost all confectioners use glucose in their candies, since it helps to
keep the sugar from granulating, but, since corn syrup is composed
largely of glucose it is advisable for the home candy-maker to use it as
it can be readily obtained at the grocery store. A few recipes call for
glycerine, and this is quite harmless, and helps to make the candy
smooth and creamy. Cream of tartar, vinegar and lemon juice are used to
prevent the sugar from graining also.

The butter used in making butter-scotch, fudges and such like candies
should be of the very best quality. Never under any circumstances use
in candy, stale butter, or substitutes, or butter that is very salty.


A FEW THINGS THE CANDY-MAKER SHOULD KNOW

The tests in cold water compared to degrees on the thermometer are as
follows:

    230 to 235 degrees          Thread stage.
    238 to 240  "               Soft ball stage.
    250 to 255  "               Hard ball stage.
    280 to 290  "               Crack stage.
    300 to 310  "               Hard crack stage.

In testing the syrup with the thermometer allow the thermometer to
become hot gradually.

If one does not have a thermometer and has to test the syrup in cold
water one will have to depend a great deal on sight and touch. The
thread stage is found by letting a little syrup drop from a spoon; if it
forms a thread then it is known as the thread stage. The soft ball stage
is reached when the syrup forms a soft ball between the fingers when
dropped in cold water, and the hard ball stage is reached when it makes
a firm ball between the fingers when dropped in cold water. The crack
stage is reached when it cracks or becomes brittle, and the hard crack
stage is reached when all the water has evaporated and the syrup is
about ready to burn. At this stage one must watch it very closely.

After the sugar has melted when put over the fire, wipe the sides of the
kettle down carefully; this removes the undissolved sugar, which is apt
to cause the rest to grain if not removed.

All scum should be carefully removed as soon as the syrup boils; but be
careful not to stir the syrup or jar it any more than possible. Candies
in which milk, cream or chocolate is used should be boiled in a deep
vessel as they have a tendency to boil over. Sugar and water and corn
syrup will not boil over, so that the depth of the vessel in which they
are boiled does not matter so much.

Hard candies should be loosened up from the tin, or whatever they are
molded in, before they are quite cool, or they will stick and be hard to
remove. It is well to remember that nearly all hard candies will become
sticky in warm weather, so should be kept in glass jars or wrapped in
waxed paper.

If a batch of candy should become grainy and go back to sugar again it
can be boiled over, adding a little more water and corn syrup or cream
of tartar; but do not use the same vessel unless it has been well
washed.


THE COLORING AND FLAVORING

Use nothing but fruit or vegetable colorings for candy; these can
usually be obtained at a drug store, or from the confectioner. A little
of these will go a long way. Colorings can be obtained in liquid form or
in form of paste. The useful colors are orange, yellow, red, leaf green
and violet. With red one can get all the shades of pink, and rose.
Different shades of green can be made with the green by the amount used.
Always remember that high colors are not desirable in candy and confine
yourself to the paler shades as much as possible. You can obtain
different shades by combining two colors; for instance, put a drop or
two of red with your violet and you will have another shade, and so on.
A good shade can be made with strong coffee.

By using different flavoring extracts one may have a great variety in
candy. Use only pure extracts or oils. When using oil of peppermint or
oil of cinnamon for flavoring remember it is very strong and use only a
few drops, while from a half teaspoonful to a tablespoonful of extract
may be used, according to the strength of flavoring desired. Always add
the flavoring after the syrup has been removed from the fire, as in most
cases it will boil out if put in with the other ingredients.




CHAPTER II

THE MAKING OF FONDANT


THE foundation for innumerable cream candies and for nearly all bonbons
is what the confectioners call "fondant." This is quite easily made by
the home candy-maker after once getting the knack of it; but one must be
careful to follow directions closely and not become careless. It has a
great advantage from the fact that it can be made up a long time before
it is worked into candies, since it will keep for a great length of
time. It can be made up in large quantities, but it is best for the
amateur candy-maker at first to make it in small quantities at a time,
and make it oftener; then as she becomes more adept she may use several
pounds of sugar at a making.


FONDANT

To make the fondant take two pounds of granulated sugar, one-half cupful
of water and one-fourth teaspoonful of cream of tartar. Boil this to
the soft ball stage or to 238 degrees. Stir the sugar over a slow fire
until it is thoroughly dissolved; then take a damp cloth and wipe away
all the sugar crystals that appear on the sides of the pan. When it is
done remove from fire and pour over a large platter that has been cooled
or over a marble slab. Do not scrape the contents out of pan or allow it
to drip, but pour out quickly, then there will be less danger of its
graining. Let stand until nearly cool (not cold), then stir until it
becomes thick and creamy, working it away from the edges of the platter
or slab into a mass in the center. Use a wooden spoon in creaming the
fondant, and it is a good idea to sprinkle a little cold water over the
top of the syrup after it has been poured out on the platter; this will
prevent a crust from forming on top. When too stiff to work with spoon
take it in the hands and knead until it is smooth and velvety. Let stand
a few hours until it has mellowed somewhat, then pack down in jars and
bowls, and cover with a damp cloth. If kept for some time dampen the
cloth occasionally. As we said before this fondant will keep for a long
time, and one may use it when desired. If a batch should turn grainy
after stirring it can be boiled over again, or used in making some other
candy, but in either case it must be boiled over again and a little more
water added. In making fondant it is best to take a kettle that has not
been used for other purposes, or it will give the fondant a taste; also
be very careful to have the thermometer clean if one is used. The
fondant can be colored and flavored when still warm, or it can be
colored and flavored when you warm or melt it when ready to make the
bonbons. Fondant should cool quickly after it has been poured out on a
platter or slab. As marble is naturally cool it is best for this
purpose, but a platter may be placed on ice, or dipped in cold water
before being used.


CHOCOLATE FONDANT

The above directions are for white fondant, which is the kind most
generally made, but one can make chocolate and maple fondant. To make
the chocolate fondant take two cupfuls of sugar and four ounces of
grated chocolate and one-half cupful of water. Boil to the soft ball
stage, flavor with a teaspoonful of vanilla and proceed as when making
white fondant. It is best not to add the chocolate until the syrup has
boiled a while, then it can be melted and slowly added, for the syrup
must not be stirred while boiling.


MAPLE FONDANT

To make maple fondant take one cupful of brown sugar and two cupfuls of
maple syrup, or one cupful of maple sugar. If the sugar is used add
one-half cupful of water. To keep the syrup from graining add one-fourth
teaspoonful of cream of tartar. Boil to the soft ball stage or to 238
degrees by the thermometer, and then pour out on platter or slab, and
proceed as with the white fondant. A good substitute for maple fondant
may be made by flavoring with mapleine some of the white fondant. Maple
fondant is especially good combined with nuts in making bonbons, and
also makes nice centers for chocolate creams.

In the chapter on bonbons you will find many ways in which the fondant
can be used, and many other ways will no doubt suggest themselves to you
when you once begin to work with it.




CHAPTER III

HARD CANDIES


MANY persons prefer the hard candies to the soft varieties. Most of
these hard candies are boiled to the crack stage or hard crack stage,
which is from 280 to 310 degrees. In testing these candies in cold water
it is always advisable to remove from the fire while doing so, for when
the syrup gets to the turning stage it will burn very soon if not
watched. Other hard candies will be found classified under the chapter
on nut candies, such as peanut brittle, nut nougats, etc.


CHOCOLATE CHIPS

Place in a saucepan one cupful of brown sugar, one-half cupful of New
Orleans molasses (the light colored molasses), and one tablespoonful of
butter. Boil to the crack stage, then remove from the fire and flavor
with one teaspoonful of vanilla. Pull into long thin sheets, and cut
into small pieces. When cold dip into melted chocolate flavored with a
little vanilla.


CINNAMON JIBB

Place in a saucepan one cupful of golden corn syrup, one-fourth cupful
of butter, a tablespoonful of cinnamon, and one-half cupful of water.
Boil to the crack stage. Pour into buttered pans, and mark off into
squares. When cool break up.


FIG BRITTLE

Take two cupfuls of light brown sugar, one cupful of golden corn syrup
and one-half cupful of water. Cook to the crack stage, and then stir in
figs that have been cut up into bits. Pour into a buttered pan, and mark
off. When cool break up. Date brittle can be made in the same manner.


BUTTER-SCOTCH

Take two cupfuls of light brown sugar, one-half cupful of butter,
one-fourth cupful of water and one tablespoonful of vinegar. Boil to
the crack stage. Pour into buttered tins, mark off into squares, and
when cool break up. A tablespoonful or two of molasses improves
butter-scotch for many persons.


FRENCH BUTTER-SCOTCH

Take two cupfuls of granulated sugar, one-half cupful of maple sugar,
one-half cupful of butter, one tablespoonful of vinegar, and one-fourth
cupful of water. Cook to the crack stage or to 280 degrees, then remove
from fire and add one teaspoonful of vanilla, and one-fourth teaspoonful
soda. Mark into strips, and when cold cut with a pair of shears.


MAPLE PANOCHA

Take one cupful of maple sugar, one cupful of light brown sugar, two
tablespoonfuls of butter, and one-half cupful of water. Boil to the
crack stage. Pour over pecan meats that have been placed on a buttered
pan. When cold break in any manner desired.


HOREHOUND CANDY

Take two cupfuls of brown sugar, one cupful of corn syrup, and one-half
teaspoonful of cream of tartar. Pour over this the horehound liquid made
by steeping two ounces of dried horehound (which can be obtained at the
drug store) in one pint of hot water. Boil down to a cupful before
adding to the sugar. If you do not wish it to be very strong of
horehound don't use quite so much. Boil to the hard crack stage or about
300 degrees. Pour into a buttered pan or pans. Mark deeply into small
squares while still warm, and when cool it will break easily.


CHOCOLATE TAFFY

Take two cupfuls of sugar, one cupful of golden corn syrup, one-half
cupful of boiling water, and one-fourth teaspoonful of cream of tartar.
Boil to the soft ball stage, then add two ounces of unsweetened
chocolate shaved fine. Boil to nearly the crack stage or about 270
degrees, then add one teaspoonful of vanilla. Pour out on a buttered
platter, cool and pull. Cut into small pieces, using shears or sharp
knife, and place on buttered plate or paraffine paper.


MOLASSES TAFFY

Take two cupfuls of sugar, and one-half cupful of New Orleans or baking
molasses, and one-half cupful of corn syrup, and a third teaspoonful of
cream of tartar. Boil to about the crack stage. Turn out on a greased
platter, and when cool enough pull until light colored. Cut in small
pieces.


NUT TAFFY

Take two cupfuls of light brown sugar, one-half cupful of corn syrup,
one-half cupful of water, and one-fourth teaspoonful of cream of tartar.
Boil to the hard ball stage. Add one teaspoonful of vanilla, and one
cupful of nut meats, chopped. Pour out on a platter, and pull as soon as
cool enough.


LEMON STICK CANDY

Take two cupfuls of granulated sugar, one-half cupful of white corn
syrup, one-half cupful of water, and the juice of one lemon. Boil all
together with half the rind of the lemon to the crisp or crack stage.
Flavor with one teaspoonful of extract of lemon, and color with yellow
coloring. Pour out on a buttered platter, and when cool enough pull into
sticks, and cut about four inches long.


PEPPERMINT STICK CANDY

Make the same as the lemon stick, but omit the lemon, and use one-fourth
teaspoonful of cream of tartar. After removing from fire flavor with
peppermint. Divide the candy into two portions, and color one with red
coloring. Pull each part separately, then twist the red candy around the
white till you have it in form of a stick. Cut into sticks, and if
desired form into canes.


STRAWBERRY DROPS

Take two cupfuls of granulated sugar, one-half cupful of corn syrup, the
juice of one lemon, and a fourth cupful of water. A tablespoonful of
vinegar can be used instead of lemon juice if desired. Boil to the hard
crack stage. Color with red coloring and flavor with strawberry
flavoring. Drop from a spoon in drops about the size of a nickel onto
waxed or greased paper. By flavoring with different flavoring and using
different colorings you may have a variety in these drop candies.


HONEY PEPPERMINT TABLETS

Take one cupful of honey, one cupful of sugar and one-half cupful of
white corn syrup, one-fourth teaspoonful of cream of tartar and one
teaspoonful of butter. Boil to the crack stage, then remove from fire
and add one teaspoonful of peppermint extract. Drop from a spoon onto
oiled paper, about the size of a nickel or quarter. This candy can be
pulled if preferred, and cut into pieces.


MAPLE TABLETS

Melt together in a saucepan one cupful of maple sugar and one cupful of
light brown sugar, four tablespoonfuls of butter, one teaspoonful of
lemon juice and one tablespoonful of water. Boil to the hard crack
stage, and drop on oiled paper in drops about the size of a nickel. When
partly cool stick two of the drops together.


FRUIT TABLETS

Take one cupful of sugar, one-half cupful of corn syrup and one-half
glass of currant or any kind of jelly. Boil to the crack stage, add a
teaspoonful of vanilla, almond or the kind of flavoring that goes best
with the jelly used. Drop from a spoon on oiled or waxed paper, and when
partly cool put two drops together.


ROSE NOUGAT

Take two cupfuls of granulated sugar, one-half cupful white corn syrup,
one-half cupful of water and a fourth teaspoonful of cream of tartar.
Boil to the crack stage. Add one-half cupful of finely chopped candied
cherries, and color a rose color with fruit or vegetable coloring. Let
stand for a few moments until partly cool, then pour over the whites of
two stiffly beaten eggs. Beat well and pour into a buttered mold. Cut
into squares. One-half cupful of finely chopped almonds can be added if
desired and flavored with one-half teaspoonful of almond extract.


RAISIN STICKIES

Take one cupful of sugar and one cupful of golden corn syrup and one
cupful of finely chopped raisins, and one-half cupful of water and boil
to the crack stage. Add one-half teaspoonful of cinnamon and one
teaspoonful of vanilla. Pour into buttered pans, and when partly cool,
mark off into sticks about an inch across. Twist each stick until twice
the original length and cut in two. Place on paraffine paper until cool.


VANILLA TAFFY

Place in a saucepan two cupfuls of white sugar, one cupful of white corn
syrup, and one-half cupful of water. Bring to a boil, then add one
teaspoonful of glycerine and a fourth teaspoonful of cream of tartar.
Boil to about 260 degrees or to a little more than the hard ball stage
and not quite to the crack stage. Pour on a greased platter or a slab,
and add a tablespoonful of vanilla. Dip your hands in corn-starch and as
soon as it cools enough to be handled pull until it is white and waxy.
If a hook is used you can make nicer and whiter taffy. Remove from hands
or hook and lay on waxed paper, and when cold break up; or it can be cut
into small pieces while still warm. In summer taffy should be wrapped in
waxed paper, since it is liable to become very sticky.


SALT WATER TAFFY

This is made the same as the vanilla taffy except that a tablespoonful
of butter is added and one teaspoonful of salt. This can be flavored and
colored to suit the taste and pulled like the vanilla taffy. In making
taffy fold over the edges as it cools and keep folding the batch up
until cool enough to pull.


TAFFY DREAMS WITH NUT CENTERS

Place in a saucepan two pounds of granulated sugar, one cup of water and
one-half teaspoonful cream of tartar or a tablespoonful of lemon juice.
Boil to the hard ball stage. Place some nut meats in a bowl and pour
enough of the syrup over these so that they will be well coated. Set
these in a cool place while pulling the remainder of the taffy. Put the
syrup over the fire and boil until nearly the crack stage, then remove
and flavor with vanilla or almond, or any flavoring desired. Pour over a
large platter or a marble slab. Cool quickly, and then dip your hands in
corn-starch and pull the candy until white. Form into a sheet about six
inches wide while still warm. Lay on a tin or slab and spread the nut
mixture in the center. Fold the edge of sheet over, pinch the edges
together so that the nut part cannot be seen. Now stretch the candy by
pulling it gently and quickly through the palms of both hands. Cut into
pieces with a sharp knife and lay on waxed paper. Nut and fruit combined
can be used for the centers, or fruit alone. In this case pour the syrup
over them to make them stick together as above.




CHAPTER IV

FUDGES AND CARAMELS


FUDGE is one of the most easily made, and one of the most popular of all
the home-made candies. Caramels are also a favorite. These candies can
be made a great variety of ways.


CHOCOLATE FUDGE

Take two cupfuls of sugar, two ounces of chocolate, one cup of good
milk, and one tablespoonful of butter, or if you wish a richer fudge use
two tablespoonfuls of butter. Bring the sugar, milk and butter to a boil
and cook until it threads or to 235 degrees. Add the chocolate which
should be melted or shaved fine. Stir it in well, then add a teaspoonful
of vanilla, and beat up until creamy. The secret of good fudge lies in
the beating. Some stir constantly from the time it is removed from the
fire until it turns creamy, while others let it stand until nearly
cool, and then beat up until creamy. Pour into buttered pan or mold, and
when cold cut into neat small squares.


MAPLE SUGAR FUDGE

Take two cups of maple sugar, one cup of milk, one tablespoonful of
butter, and one cupful of chopped walnut meats. Boil until the mixture
forms a soft ball when dropped into cold water, or to about 240 degrees.
Remove from fire and let stand until nearly cool, then stir until
creamy. Pour into greased pans, and when cool cut into squares.


BURNT ALMOND FUDGE

Brown blanched almonds in the oven and chop rather coarsely. Brown
one-half cupful of granulated sugar in a granite pan; then add
two-thirds cupful of milk, and when the browned sugar is thoroughly
dissolved add one cupful of granulated sugar and one tablespoonful of
butter. Boil until it makes a firm ball when dropped in cold water;
flavor with almond extract and add one cupful of the browned almonds;
stir until creamy, then pour into pans and mark off into squares.


COFFEE FUDGE

Take two cupfuls of granulated sugar, one cupful of strong boiled
coffee, one-half cupful of cream and a teaspoonful of butter. Boil to
the soft ball stage, then add a cupful of chopped nut meats, and stir
until creamy. Pour into pans and cut into squares. The nuts may be
omitted if desired.


MARSHMALLOW FUDGE

Take two cupfuls of light brown sugar, a cupful of milk, a tablespoonful
of butter, and a fourth teaspoonful of cream of tartar. Boil until it
threads or to 235 degrees, and then add a half pound of marshmallows.
Beat until dissolved, add a cupful of chopped walnut meats. Pour into
buttered pans and cut into squares. Another way to make this fudge is to
omit the nuts and add two squares of chocolate.


PEANUT FUDGE

Take two cupfuls of brown sugar, one cupful of milk, and one teaspoonful
of butter. When oily nuts are used in fudge one does not need to use so
much butter. Boil to the thread or soft ball stage, and then add one
cupful of finely ground peanuts and one teaspoonful vanilla. If
preferred peanut butter may be used. Beat up until creamy, pour into
buttered pans, and cut into squares.


FIG FUDGE

Take two cupfuls of granulated sugar, one cupful of water, a fourth
teaspoonful of cream of tartar, one-half pound of figs, one teaspoonful
of ginger, and one tablespoonful of butter. Boil the mixture to the soft
ball stage. Remove from the fire and beat up until creamy. Pour into a
buttered pan and mark into squares. Chop the figs before adding.


DIVINITY FUDGE

Take two cupfuls of light brown sugar, add one-half cupful of golden
corn syrup, and one-half cupful of water. Boil to the hard ball stage.
Add one cupful of chopped walnut meats, and one teaspoonful of vanilla;
and then pour over the stiffly beaten whites of two eggs. Beat up until
light and foamy. Pour into buttered pans, and when cool mark off into
squares.


COCOANUT FUDGE

Take two cupfuls of granulated sugar, one cupful of milk, one
tablespoonful of butter, and one-fourth teaspoonful of cream of tartar.
Boil to the thread or soft ball stage and then add one cupful of grated
cocoanut. Beat up until quite creamy.


FRUIT FUDGE

Take two cupfuls of light brown sugar, a cupful of milk, a tablespoonful
of butter, and a pinch of cream of tartar. Boil until it makes a soft
ball, then add a fourth pound of marshmallows. Beat until dissolved,
then add one-half cupful of chopped walnut meats, and a cupful each of
chopped dates and figs. Beat up until creamy, and pour into buttered
pans.


CINNAMON FUDGE

Take two cupfuls of light brown sugar, one cupful of milk, one-half
cupful of butter, and two tablespoonfuls of cinnamon. Boil to the soft
ball stage, remove from the fire and add a teaspoonful of vanilla. Beat
up until creamy, pour into a buttered mold and cut into squares when
cold.


PINEAPPLE FUDGE

Take two cupfuls of granulated sugar, one cupful of water, and a pinch
of cream of tartar. Boil to the hard ball stage, then add one cupful of
candied pineapple. Pour over the stiffly beaten whites of two eggs, and
beat up until light and foamy.


LAYER FUDGES

These are fine and are made by pouring one kind of fudge upon another in
layers. For this purpose one should use only the fudges that combine
well together. Layers of several different kinds of fudge may be used,
or only two, as desired. A chocolate fudge with a layer of divinity
fudge between is delicious. Pour half of the chocolate fudge into a
pan, and when cool pour over it a layer of divinity fudge; then when
this has cooled pour over the remainder of the chocolate fudge which
should have been kept hot in a bowl set in hot water. Fruit and nut
fudges make a good combination.


COCOANUT MARSHMALLOW FUDGE

Take two cupfuls of sugar and one-half cupful of milk and boil up, then
add one tablespoonful of butter and boil to the soft ball stage. Add a
cupful of grated cocoanut and beat up until creamy. Arrange some
marshmallows in a pan, and pour the fudge mixture over them. When cold
cut into squares between the marshmallows.


ANOTHER COCOANUT MARSHMALLOW FUDGE

Take two cupfuls of granulated sugar, one cupful of milk and one
tablespoonful of butter. Boil to the hard ball stage. Take it off the
fire and add a teaspoonful of vanilla and one cupful of grated cocoanut.
Mix this in, then add a half-dozen marshmallows. Let stand a while
until soft; then pour the mixture over the stiffly beaten whites of two
eggs. Beat up until it begins to get creamy, then pour into buttered
pans, and when cool cut into squares.


BARLEY FUDGE

Take a cupful of barley and brown it in the oven; be careful not to burn
it, but have it a nice brown. Run this through the coffee-grinder. Take
two cupfuls of brown sugar, one-half cupful of corn syrup, one-half
cupful of milk and a tablespoonful of butter. Boil to the soft ball
stage, add a tablespoonful of vanilla, then stir in the ground barley.
Stir until creamy and pour out into a buttered pan, and when cold cut
into squares.


COFFEE CARAMELS

Take one cupful of light brown sugar, one cupful of golden corn syrup,
one-half cupful of milk, one-half cupful of strong boiled coffee and one
tablespoonful of butter. Boil to the hard ball stage. Remove from the
fire, stir in one teaspoonful of vanilla, then pour into buttered pans,
and mark off into squares. When cool cut into squares, and wrap each
caramel in waxed paper.


COCOANUT CARAMELS

Take two cupfuls of granulated sugar, one-half cupful of white corn
syrup, one-half cupful of cream, or if milk is used add one
tablespoonful of butter. Boil to the hard ball stage. Remove from fire
and stir in one cupful of grated cocoanut and one teaspoonful of
vanilla. Pour into buttered pans, and when cold cut into squares.


CHOCOLATE CARAMELS

Take one cupful of light brown sugar, one cupful of golden corn syrup,
and one cupful of milk. Boil to about 235 degrees or to the soft ball
stage, then add one-fourth pound of chocolate. Continue to boil to the
hard ball stage or about 250 degrees. Flavor with vanilla, and pour into
a buttered pan about an inch thick. Mark off into squares while still
warm.


SULTANA CARAMELS

Put into a saucepan two cupfuls of light brown sugar, one cupful of
golden corn syrup, one-half cupful of milk and one-fourth cupful of
butter. Bring to the boiling point, then add a cupful of Sultana raisins
and one-half cupful of English walnut meats. Boil until it makes a firm
ball when dropped into cold water or to about 250 degrees. Remove from
the fire, add one teaspoonful of vanilla; pour into square greased pans
to an inch or half-inch thick. Mark off into squares, and press a
Sultana raisin in the top of each while still warm. When cold cut into
squares.


NUT CHOCOLATE CARAMELS

Place in a saucepan one cupful of brown sugar, one cupful of golden corn
syrup, one-half cupful of milk and two tablespoonfuls of butter. Boil to
the hard ball stage. Remove from the fire, add one teaspoonful of
vanilla and one cupful of nut meats. Turn into square buttered pan, cool
and cut into small squares, then dip into melted chocolate.


VANILLA CARAMELS

Take two cupfuls of sugar, one-half cupful of milk, and one-half cupful
of golden corn syrup. Bring to a boil and then add two tablespoonfuls of
butter. When nearly done add one square of chocolate. Boil to the hard
ball stage, then flavor with a spoonful of vanilla. Pour into a square
pan about an inch thick. Mark off in squares while still warm, and cut
into cubes when cold.


STRAWBERRY CARAMELS

Place in a saucepan one cupful of granulated sugar, one cupful of golden
corn syrup and one tablespoonful of butter. Boil to the soft ball stage,
then add one glassful of whole preserved strawberries, and boil until a
hard ball will form between the fingers in cold water or to 250 degrees.
Turn into a buttered pan, cool, and cut into small squares.


JELLY CARAMELS

Take two cupfuls of granulated sugar, one cupful rich cream, or if milk
is used add a tablespoonful of butter, and one cupful of golden corn
syrup. Boil to the hard ball stage then add a teaspoonful of vanilla,
and pour into separate pans only about a third as thick as the usual
caramels. Stiffen a glassful of any good jelly with a little gelatine
melted in a little cold water. Pour this jelly when it begins to stiffen
over one of the layers of caramel. Let stand until nearly cold, then
remove the other layer of caramel from pan and place over the jelly. Let
stand until perfectly cold, preferably over night, then cut into
squares. Preserved fruits can be used instead of the jelly, and in this
case, especially if the preserves are thick, no gelatine need be used.


CHOCOLATE CREAM CARAMELS

These are made in the same way as the above except that a layer of
fondant is placed between the two layers of caramel. Melt the fondant,
and pour over the caramel, and when barely cool place the other layer on
top. Press lightly so that the layers will blend together. When cool cut
into squares.


MOLASSES CARAMELS

Take one cupful of brown sugar, two cupfuls of New Orleans molasses,
one-half cup of milk, and one-half cupful of butter. Boil to the hard
ball stage, then remove from the fire, and add one teaspoonful of
vanilla. Pour into a buttered pan, mark off into squares when partly
cool, and when cold cut into cubes.


FRANCONIA CARAMELS

Take one cupful of light brown sugar, one cupful of molasses, one cupful
of milk and two tablespoonfuls of butter. Boil to the hard ball stage,
then remove from fire and add one-half cupful of walnut meats, and a
teaspoonful of vanilla. Turn into a buttered pan, and when cool cut into
cubes, and dip each one in melted chocolate.


TUTTI-FRUTTI CARAMELS

Take two cupfuls of light brown sugar, one cupful of golden corn syrup,
one-half cupful of milk, one tablespoonful of butter, one-half cupful of
chopped dates, one-half cupful of chopped figs, one-half cupful of
chopped seeded raisins, and one-fourth cupful each of candied orange
peel and citron. A half cupful of black walnut meats will improve this
candy. Boil to the hard ball stage, stirring often to keep from
sticking. Remove from fire, add a teaspoonful of vanilla, then pour into
buttered pans, and mark off into squares.


BUTTERNUT CARAMELS

Take two cupfuls of light brown sugar, one cupful of golden corn syrup,
one cupful of milk and one tablespoonful of butter. Boil to the hard
ball stage, then remove from the fire and add one cupful of chopped
butternut meats. Pour into buttered pans, and when partly cool mark off
into squares. When cold cut in cubes with a sharp knife, and wrap each
caramel in the paraffine paper.


CARROT CARAMELS

Boil some carrots or better bake them until quite tender, then pass
through a sieve. To two cupfuls of this carrot pulp add two cupfuls of
sugar, one-half cupful of corn syrup, two lemons, using both the juice
and grated peel, one-half cupful of finely chopped almonds, also
one-half cupful of water. Boil to the hard ball stage, and pour into
well-buttered pans. When cool cut into cubes.




CHAPTER V

NUT CANDIES


MANY delicious candies may be made by adding nuts to the other
ingredients, and since nuts have much food value these candies are
healthful and nourishing.


CHOCOLATE ALMONDS

Blanch a pound of almonds; this is done by pouring hot water over the
almond meats and letting them stand on back of stove for about five
minutes when the skins can easily be slipped off. Place on a pan in the
oven and brown a nice dark brown, but be careful not to let them burn.
When cool dip each almond in melted sweet chocolate.


BROWN ALMOND NOUGAT

Blanch and cut one pound of sweet almonds in slices; lay them on a paper
in a pan, and place in the oven until slightly brown. Take two cupfuls
of granulated sugar, one-half cupful of golden corn syrup, and one
teaspoonful of lemon juice. Melt to a liquid, stirring well, then add
the almonds and mix well with the syrup. Butter a large platter or
marble slab. Pour the nougat on this and make it even with a lemon,
which should be lightly dipped in oil or melted butter. Make it about an
inch thick, and cut into strips or bars, or it may be used to line
molds. The molds are first slightly buttered on the inside, then a thin
layer of nougat is pressed against the form; this must be done while the
nougat is still warm. When cool turn out of form or mold, and these may
then be filled with candied fruit and whipped cream, candies or
ice-cream.


WHITE NOUGAT

Boil two pounds of honey to the crack stage, or nearly to the crack,
have the whites of four eggs beaten stiff, and add to the honey. Stir
over a slow fire until it has reached the crack stage; then add two
pounds of blanched almonds cut into strips and slightly browned in the
oven. Mix all together and pour on platter or marble slab, or else line
a nougat frame with wafer paper which can be bought at a confectionery
shop, then pour the nougat into the frame, put board and weight on top.


PEANUT BRITTLE

Take two cupfuls of light brown sugar, one cup of corn syrup, one-half
cupful of water, one tablespoonful of butter and cook to the crack
stage, then add a teaspoonful of vanilla, and two cupfuls of peanuts
that have been slightly roasted, and stir until it begins to turn brown.
Be careful not to let it burn, or become more than a golden brown in
color. Add one tablespoonful (level) of soda, stirring it quickly, then
pour over a greased platter or marble slab. As soon as it is thin enough
to handle, loosen from the platter or slab with a knife, turn over and
stretch out very thin. Break up into any desired shape when cold.


ALMOND TOFFEE

Take two cupfuls of brown sugar, two tablespoonfuls of butter and
one-half cupful of cream and boil to the hard ball stage; then add one
cupful of chopped almonds and one teaspoonful of vanilla. Boil to the
crack stage. Pour into buttered pans, and mark off into squares.


SOUTHERN HAZELNUT TOFFEE

Melt one-half cupful of butter in a saucepan, add one cupful brown sugar
and one cupful New Orleans molasses. Boil to the hard ball stage, add
one cupful of chopped hazelnuts and boil to the crack stage. Pour into
buttered pan, and mark off into squares.


MEXICAN PANOCHA

Take two cupfuls of brown sugar, one-half cupful of corn syrup, one
cupful of sweet milk, one teaspoonful of butter, and one square of
chocolate. Mix the ingredients and boil to the hard ball stage, stirring
the mixture constantly while on the stove. Add one cupful of pecan or
any chopped nut meats, and pour into buttered pans. When cold cut into
squares.


PRALINES

Take two cupfuls of light brown sugar, one cupful of cream, and boil to
the soft ball stage. Remove from fire and add one cupful of whole pecan
meats, and one teaspoonful of vanilla. Stir until creamy, but be careful
not to break the nut meats. A good way is to stir until it begins to
cream, then add the nuts, and stir until the meats are well mixed with
the creamy mass. Place in a cool place for a while, then separate the
nut meats, keeping each one roughly coated with the cream candy.


CREAM NUT BARS

Take two cupfuls of light brown sugar, one cupful of maple sugar, and
one cupful of cream and boil to the soft ball stage. Remove from the
fire and stir in one teaspoonful of vanilla, then stir until it begins
to get creamy; add one cupful of finely chopped nut meats. Pour into a
square pan, mark off into small squares, and press a half nut meat in
center of each square. Cut into bars when cool, allowing two or three
squares to a bar.


MAPLE AND BUTTERNUT CREAM

Take two cupfuls of maple sugar, and one cup of cream. Boil to the soft
ball stage. Remove from the fire and add one cupful butternut meats, and
stir until it turns creamy. Pour into buttered pans, and cut into
squares. Maple and walnut creams may be made in the same manner. Place a
half of a nut meat on top of each square.


CHOCOLATE NUT CANDY

Take two cupfuls of granulated sugar, one-half cupful of water,
one-fourth teaspoonful of cream of tartar, and boil to the soft ball
stage, then add one-fourth cupful of melted chocolate, one teaspoonful
of vanilla and one cupful of nut meats. Beat up until creamy. Pour into
buttered pans, and when cold cut into squares or bars. Peanuts, walnuts,
pecans or any kind of nuts can be used for this candy.


NUT BONBONS

Take two cupfuls of granulated sugar, one-half cupful of white corn
syrup, one-fourth teaspoonful of cream of tartar. Boil to the soft ball
stage. Pour into four different plates. In one plate put a little melted
chocolate and a fourth teaspoonful of vanilla, on another plate pour a
few drops of red coloring and flavor with strawberry, on another plate
pour a little yellow coloring and flavor with orange or lemon. Drop
about a dozen almonds on each plate, the fourth plate being left white.
Stir each plate until syrup is creamy, and each nut is well coated with
the sugar. Separate each nut and place on waxed paper.


CANDIED CHESTNUTS

Take the chestnuts that are to be candied and score each nut on one side
with a sharp knife. Cover with boiling water, cook five minutes and dry.
Add a teaspoonful of butter to each pint of nuts, and stir or shake over
the fire for five minutes. This loosens the shells and the inner skins,
which can now be removed together. Cover the shelled nuts with cold
water, and to each pound of nuts add the juice of one lemon. Let stand
in this over night, since this will help to harden the nuts, so they
can be boiled without breaking up. In the morning, drain, and simmer
slowly for one or two hours, or until the nuts are tender. Make a syrup
using a pound of sugar to each pound of nuts. Add to each two cupfuls of
sugar a half cupful of water and cook until thick, add the nuts and
simmer slowly for a half hour, then drain; let them stand in the syrup
over night, removing them from the fire. The next day boil the syrup
until thick as honey.

Remove the nuts and place on plates and set in the oven or in the sun to
dry. Boil the syrup down a little thicker, and pour over the nuts
several times while drying until all is absorbed. Dry the nuts and store
between layers of waxed paper in a box.


GLAC√â NUTS

Take two cupfuls of granulated sugar, one-half cupful of water, and
one-half teaspoonful of cream of tartar. Boil to the hard crack stage or
until the syrup begins to turn brown. Add a teaspoonful of vanilla. Take
the nuts to be dipped separately on a long pin, dip into the syrup to
cover, remove and place on oiled or waxed paper. Almonds, walnuts,
hazelnuts, pecans and peanuts can be used for dipping.


WALNUT BONBONS

Place in a saucepan one cupful of granulated sugar, one-half cupful of
golden corn syrup, one-half cupful of water, and a pinch of cream of
tartar. Boil to the hard ball stage, then add one-half teaspoonful of
vanilla and one-half cupful of English walnut meats chopped fine. Pour
over the beaten white of one egg, and beat up until light. When it
begins to harden drop on halved English walnut meats and press a half
nut meat on the top of each bonbon.


PEANUT MOLASSES CANDY

Take one cupful of sugar, one cupful of New Orleans or sorghum molasses,
and a tablespoonful of butter and boil to the hard crack stage. Stir in
two cupfuls of peanuts, or just as many as you can, as the more nuts in
this candy the better. Pour on a greased pan. When cold break into
pieces or cut into squares with a very sharp knife.


MEXICAN NUT CONFECTION

Take two cupfuls of light brown sugar, a quart of sweet milk and boil
until the sugar is all melted, then stir in the well beaten yolks of six
eggs. Boil until thick and smooth, stirring constantly, then add one
pound of almonds that have been blanched and worked into a paste, and
one teaspoonful of cinnamon. Boil to a firm mass, and stir to keep from
sticking. This should be made in a double boiler. Pour into a buttered
mold at least two inches thick, and when very cold slice. This is good
dipped in chocolate or fondant.


NUT LOAF

Take an equal quantity of walnut, hickory-nut, almond and pecan meats
and chop fine. To each cupful of nut meats have one-half cupful of
chopped fruit, using dates, figs, raisins or candied cherries. Work the
fruit and nuts well together. For each cupful of this mixture take one
cupful of fondant. Melt the fondant, and stir the fruit and nut mixture
into it; then remove and knead. Form this into an oblong loaf, flatten
on top. Cover with paraffine paper and let stand for several days until
the fruit and nuts are well blended with the fondant, then cut into
slices.


NUT STUFFED FRUIT

Dates are especially nice stuffed with nut meats. Remove the stones and
insert a salted blanched almond in each, or chop up some walnut meats
and work into a paste with a little cream or fondant and insert in the
center of the dates. Close up and roll the dates in powdered sugar or
else dip into fondant. Large prunes soaked over night until plump, and
then stuffed with chopped almonds or pecan nut meats are fine. Large
Sultana raisins are also good stuffed with nut meats.


CHERRY AND ALMOND CONFECTION

Take two cupfuls of sugar, one-half cupful of corn syrup and a half
cupful of milk and boil to the soft ball stage. Add a half cupful of
chopped almonds, one-half cupful of candied cherries, and one
teaspoonful almond extract. Stir until creamy, pour into buttered pan,
and when cold cut into squares. Decorate some of the squares with almond
meats and others with candied cherries.




CHAPTER VI

FRUIT CANDIES


SOME of the most delicious home-made candies are made with the addition
of fruits to the other ingredients. All kinds of candied fruits, also
many kinds of dried fruits, such as dates, figs, raisins and prunes may
be used in candy-making. Many may not know that just as delicious
candies can be made with our home-preserved fruits.

Candied fruits are in most cases expensive, but they can be made at
home, and therefore the expense cut down. Cherries can be candied in the
following manner: Select nice, large, and not over-ripe cherries for
this purpose. Stone them carefully. Weigh the cherries, and to each
pound of the fruit add two pounds of sugar, using only the best
granulated for this purpose. Put the sugar in a kettle with one-half
cupful of water, and boil to a thick syrup, removing all scum as it
arises. Place a few of the cherries in at a time, and let simmer slowly
until the fruit is transparent. Remove the fruit with a strainer, and
add more of them until all have been cooked in this manner. Then place
them back in syrup and let them stand over night in it. In the morning
remove and place them out in the sun. It is a good idea to place them in
a sieve, spreading them over it, and then cover the sieve with netting.
They can be dried in the oven if desired, but one must be careful that
they do not burn. When dried place in boxes between layers of paraffine
paper, sprinkling each layer with powdered sugar. Place in a dry place
until ready to use them in making candies. Pears, quinces, pineapples,
peaches and plums may all be candied. Select firm-textured fruit and
boil until tender in water before placing in the syrup; then proceed as
in candying the cherries. Orange and lemon rind may also be candied.
Remove the skin from the oranges or lemons in quarters and simmer in
water until soft; then drain and remove all the white portion by
scraping with a silver knife or spoon. Cut the oranges or lemons into
small strips with the scissors, cook in the thick syrup, and roll in
granulated sugar.


QUINCE CONFECTIONS

Melt some fondant in a bowl, flavor with orange or lemon. Put some
preserved quinces into the oven until dry. Dip each quarter into melted
fondant. Place on oiled paper to dry. Preserved pineapple can be used in
the same way.


MARASCHINO DROPS

Take maraschino cherries. Dip into melted white or pink fondant that has
been flavored with almond extract; then when hardened dip into melted
chocolate fondant, or melted chocolate.


STRAWBERRY DIVINITY FUDGE

Place in a saucepan two cupfuls of granulated sugar, half a cupful of
water and a fourth teaspoonful of cream of tartar. Boil to the hard ball
stage. Add one glassful of whole preserved strawberries and boil up
again. Pour the mixture over the stiffly beaten whites of two eggs and
beat up until light and foamy. When the mixture begins to harden pour
into buttered pans and when cool cut into squares. Any thick preserved
fruits can be used in the same way. Preserved strawberries and preserved
pineapple are good combined, half and half of each being used. If pear
preserves are used a little chopped ginger will be an improvement.


TUTTI-FRUTTI CREAM

Melt one pound of fondant in a double-boiler, add one teaspoonful of
vanilla or orange flavor; then add one tablespoonful of strawberry
preserves (using only the berries), one tablespoonful of preserved
cherries, two tablespoonfuls of preserved or candied pineapple, and one
tablespoonful each of peach and pear preserves. The addition also of a
teaspoonful each of candied orange and lemon peel will improve the
mixture. When partly cool pour into a mold for slicing or form into
bonbon shapes. If not quite stiff enough add powdered sugar to make of
the right consistency to mold nicely. These can be rolled in powdered
sugar or dipped in colored melted fondant or coated with chocolate.


PEAR CARAMELS

Place in a saucepan two cupfuls of light brown sugar, one cupful of corn
syrup, half a cupful of good milk and one tablespoonful of butter. Boil
for a few minutes, then add one cupful of preserved pears, half a cupful
of chopped candied ginger and a fourth cupful of candied lemon peel.
Boil to the hard ball stage, add one teaspoonful of orange flavor and
pour into pans. When cold cut into squares. Peach caramels are made in
the same manner, only instead of the candied ginger a cupful of chopped
almonds is added, the orange or lemon peel is omitted and almond extract
used.


MARZIPAN FRUIT CANDIES

Delicious fruit candies can be made by using marzipan paste. To make
this paste take one cup of blanched almonds and run them through a food
chopper; then pound to a fine flour. Place in a bowl and add to this
flour the same amount of powdered sugar. Use enough water, rose water,
orange juice or grape juice to make stiff paste--about three ounces will
be enough. Beat an egg up stiff and work it into the paste. Roll out the
marzipan an inch thick and cut into rounds or squares. Place a bit of
preserved fruit on each one and mold the paste up around it. Place in
the oven until the candies are dry. Another way to make the paste is to
boil the ingredients. Use about three ounces of rose water or other
liquid to the amount of almonds and sugar given above. Stir over a slow
fire until when touched with the finger the syrup will cling. When cool
knead into a paste.


SURPRISE DATES

Select some nice large dates and remove the stones. Fill some of the
cavities with chopped raisins, figs, nuts and so forth, and some with
chopped candied cherries; try to have the varieties of fillings as great
as possible. Fondant with several different flavorings may also be
used. Dip some of these stuffed dates in chocolate fondant, some in
different colored fondants and some in plain white. Every date eaten
then will prove to be a surprise and delight.


MARSHMALLOW FRUIT FUDGE

Tear out a piece from the center of each marshmallow, being careful not
to make a hole quite through it. Fill the cavities thus formed with any
good preserved fruit. Make a chocolate fudge and pour it over the
marshmallows, which should have been placed on greased paper in a pan.
Be sure that the fruit is entirely covered. When cold cut out in cakes;
they can be dipped in chocolate or left as they are. These are delicious
and will prove an agreeable surprise to those who have never eaten them
before.


FROSTED FRUIT FUDGE

Make a good chocolate fudge, beating it until creamy, and pour it into a
greased pan to about an inch in depth. When this is almost hard cover
with any thick preserved fruit desired. Then place in a kettle one cup
of granulated sugar, a fourth cupful of water and a pinch of cream of
tartar. When the mixture has boiled to the hard ball stage pour it over
the stiffly beaten white of one egg, add a teaspoonful of vanilla, or
the kind of flavoring that will combine best with the fruit used, and
beat up until light and foamy. Pour this over the fruit in the pan. When
cold cut into squares, and you will have a delicious candy. Nut meats
can be mixed in with the fruit. Almonds are also very good combined with
peach preserves.


CHERRY FOAM

Place in a saucepan two cupfuls of granulated sugar, half a cupful of
water and a fourth teaspoonful of cream of tartar. Boil until it forms a
hard ball. Just before taking the syrup from the fire stir in a cupful
of preserved cherries--the clear, transparent kinds are best. Pour the
mixture over the stiffly beaten whites of two eggs and beat until light
and foamy. Lay whole candied cherries two inches apart on waxed or
greased paper and drop the foam by spoonfuls on these, pressing candied
cherries on top of each. This candy is not only delicious but pretty to
the eye as well.


FIG FAVORITES

Select the best quality of figs and steam until soft, then make an
incision in each lengthwise and stuff with chopped nut meats. Close and
place on a buttered pan. Boil together two cupfuls of sugar, one-half
cupful of water, and one-fourth teaspoonful of cream of tartar. Boil
until it will make a hard ball when dropped into cold water, flavor with
a little vanilla, and then pour over the stuffed figs. When nearly cold
mark off into squares, then dip in melted chocolate.


PINEAPPLE MARSHMALLOWS

Soak four ounces of gum arabic in one cupful of pineapple juice until
dissolved; then strain through cheese-cloth. Put into a saucepan with
one-half pound of best powdered sugar and place saucepan in a pan of
hot water on the stove. Stir the mixture until it becomes thick and
white. Drop a little into cold water, and if it becomes a firm ball,
remove from the fire and whip into it the stiffly beaten whites of three
eggs. Flavor with a teaspoonful of vanilla. Dust a square pan with
corn-starch and pour in the mixture until an inch thick. Let it stand in
a cool place for twelve hours, then cut it into inch squares and roll in
a mixture of powdered sugar and corn-starch.


FRUIT CHOCOLATE BALLS

Take one cupful each of dates, seeded raisins and English walnut meats.
Pass through a food chopper. Form into balls, and dip into melted
chocolate fondant.


WATERMELON DAINTY

Take two cupfuls of sugar, one-fourth cupful of water, one tablespoonful
of white corn syrup, and a pinch of cream of tartar and boil until it
spins a thread or to 230 degrees. Pour over the stiffly beaten whites of
two eggs, and beat up until light and foamy. Add one teaspoonful of
vanilla, one cupful of chopped preserved watermelon rind, and one-half
cupful of chopped nut meats. Color pink with a little red fruit or
vegetable coloring. Pour into a buttered pan or mold to cool and cut
into squares.


DATE DELIGHT

Take two cupfuls of light brown sugar, one cupful of milk, and one
tablespoonful of butter. Boil to the soft ball stage. Add a teaspoonful
of vanilla, and one cupful of chopped dates. Beat up until creamy. Pour
into buttered pan or mold, and cut into squares when cold.


STUFFED PRUNES

Remove the stones from the prunes. Crack the stones and chop up the
pits. Add the chopped pits to chopped dates, and fill the cavities of
the prunes with the mixture. Dip the prunes in melted fondant. Another
way to stuff the prunes is to stone some dates, fit a cherry inside of
each date, then fit the date into the prune, and dip in the fondant.
The prunes should be soaked in water for several hours before stuffing,
and should be drained and wiped dry. Prunes filled with fondant or
fondant and nuts mixed are also delicious.


FRUIT ROLL

Cook two cupfuls of brown sugar, one-half cupful of golden corn syrup
and one-fourth cupful of water until it spins a thread. Remove from the
fire and add the grated rind of one lemon and one orange, and a
teaspoonful of the juice of each, one cupful of seeded raisins, one
cupful of English currants, one-half cupful of cocoanut, one-half cupful
of dates, and one-fourth cupful of figs; these fruits should all be run
through a food chopper. Stir all until it forms a mass. Roll out into a
thin sheet, and then roll up like a jelly roll, and cut into thin
slices.


JELLY CAKE CANDY

Melt some fondant and pour into a square or round mold. Candy boxes
lined with waxed paper will do. When cool place over this a thin layer
of some thick jelly, such as currant, red raspberry, or orange; then
pour over this another layer of fondant, and when this has cooled spread
with another thin layer of jelly and pour over the top some more
fondant. The layers of fondant may be colored differently if desired,
and flavored to suit the jelly used. When cold turn out of mold, and cut
into thin slices.




CHAPTER VII

SEA FOAM AND CREAM CANDIES


SEA FOAM and cream candies are delicious, and very easily made by the
home candy-maker. Sea foam candies are those in which the white of egg
is used, while the cream candies are made much after the same manner as
fondant is made, except that cream is used instead of water.


GINGER CREAMS

Place in a saucepan two cupfuls of granulated sugar, one-half cupful of
cream, one-fourth teaspoonful of cream of tartar or a few drops of
acetic acid and one-half teaspoonful of glycerine. Boil until it forms a
soft ball when dropped into cold water or to about 240 degrees; then
pour the syrup on a large platter and when it has become slightly cool
cover with candied ginger cut into thin strips--about one-half cupful
will be enough. Work with a wooden spoon from the sides of the dish
until it becomes creamy and smooth; then gather up in the hands and
knead thoroughly. Roll out into a sheet and cut into thin bars, laying a
strip of ginger on each bar and pressing it in with the finger.


LEMON CREAMS

Place in a saucepan one cupful of granulated sugar, one-half cupful of
cream, the grated rind of one lemon. Boil to the soft ball stage; color
with a few drops of yellow coloring and when slightly cool beat up until
creamy. Form into bonbons and decorate with candied lemon peel.


PEPPERMINT CREAMS

Place in a saucepan two cupfuls of granulated sugar, one-fourth cupful
of white corn syrup, one-fourth teaspoonful of cream of tartar, and
one-half cupful of cream. Boil to the soft ball stage. Let stand until
nearly cool, then flavor with six drops of oil of peppermint, or
one-half teaspoonful of extract, and add a few drops of red coloring to
make a light shade of pink. Beat up until creamy and form into mint
shape. Wintergreen creams can be made by flavoring with wintergreen.


MAPLE CREAMS

Place in a saucepan two cupfuls of light maple sugar and one-half cupful
of cream. Boil to the soft ball stage, then stir in one cupful of finely
chopped nut meats, and one teaspoonful of vanilla. Beat until creamy,
and pour into a buttered pan. Cut into small squares. These are good
dipped in melted chocolate.


WALNUT CREAMS

Take two cupfuls of light brown sugar, one-half cupful of golden corn
syrup, and one-half cupful of cream. Boil to the soft ball stage, add a
cupful of finely chopped walnut meats, and a teaspoonful of vanilla.
Beat until the mixture becomes creamy, then pour into buttered pan, and
when cold mark off into small squares.


COCOANUT CREAMS

Take two cupfuls of granulated sugar, one-fourth cupful of white corn
syrup, one-half cupful of cream, and one-fourth teaspoonful of cream of
tartar. Boil to the soft ball stage, then add one teaspoonful of
vanilla, and one-half cupful of shredded cocoanut. Stir until creamy,
and pour into buttered pan. Can be formed in bonbon shape or poured into
buttered pan.


HONEY CREAMS

Take two cupfuls of granulated sugar, two tablespoonfuls of strained
honey, and one-half cupful of water. Boil to the hard ball stage, then
remove from fire and stir in one-half teaspoonful of almond extract, and
a half cupful of chopped almonds. Pour over the stiffly beaten whites of
two eggs. Beat up until light and foamy, and drop from a spoon on
greased paper. Decorate the top with almonds.


VANILLA SEA FOAM

Take two cupfuls of light brown sugar, one-half cupful of water, and
one-fourth teaspoonful of cream of tartar. Boil to the hard ball stage
or to 250 degrees. Remove from the fire and flavor with one teaspoonful
of vanilla, then pour over the stiffly beaten whites of two eggs. Beat
up until light and foamy, and drop from a spoon on greased paper or a
buttered plate. These are fine dipped in melted chocolate.


MAPLE FOAM

Take two cupfuls of maple sugar, one cupful of brown sugar, one-half
cupful of water, and a fourth teaspoonful of cream of tartar. Boil to
the hard ball stage, then add a dozen marshmallows cut up into bits.
Cover and let stand for five minutes, then pour over the stiffly beaten
whites of two eggs. Beat up until light and it begins to harden. Drop
from a spoon on greased paper, and place a half walnut meat on top of
each piece of candy.


CANDIED CHERRY FOAM

Place in a saucepan two cupfuls of granulated sugar, one-half cupful of
water and one-fourth teaspoonful of cream of tartar. Boil to the hard
ball stage, and just before removing from the fire stir in a cupful of
candied cherries cut into bits; then stir the mixture over the stiffly
beaten whites of two eggs, add a few drops of red coloring, just enough
to make a delicate pink, and beat up until light and it begins to
harden. Drop from a spoon on waxed or greased paper, and garnish each
drop with a candied cherry. This candy is not only pretty to the eye but
delicious as well.


NUT FOAM CHOCOLATES

Place in a saucepan two cupfuls of granulated sugar, one-half cupful of
water and one-fourth teaspoonful of cream of tartar. Boil to the hard
ball stage. Add a teaspoonful of vanilla and pour over the stiffly
beaten whites of two eggs and beat until foamy. Drop from a spoon on a
greased paper or buttered plates that have been spread with chopped nut
meats. Press chopped nut meats over the top, then set aside to cool.
When cool dip into melted chocolate or melted chocolate fondant. These
will be light and foamy in the inside and delicious to the taste.


MAPLE DELIGHT

Take one cupful of maple sugar, and one cupful of light brown sugar,
one-fourth cupful of golden corn syrup and one-fourth teaspoonful of
cream of tartar. Boil for a few minutes then add one-half cupful of
chopped raisins, and one-half cupful of walnut or pecan nut meats. Boil
to the hard ball stage, flavor with vanilla, and pour over the stiffly
beaten whites of two eggs. Drop from spoon on waxed paper, and place a
Sultana raisin on top of each drop.




CHAPTER VIII

BONBONS


THE foundation for nearly all bonbons is fondant. Hundreds of varieties
of bonbons can be made by using different flavorings and different
combinations of one kind with another. Bonbon making is fascinating
work, and after they are made the home candy-maker has the satisfaction
of knowing that she has a pure delicious candy at much less expense than
if she bought it.


CHOCOLATE CREAMS

Many may be surprised to know that they can make several hundred
different varieties of chocolate creams alone. The simplest chocolate
creams are made by dipping the plain fondant, after it has been formed
in bonbon shapes, into melted chocolate. These fondant centers may be
flavored with vanilla, peppermint, wintergreen, pineapple, orange,
lemon, banana, almond, pistachio, cinnamon, allspice and clove, rose and
other kinds of flavors found in the market. Certain kinds of flavors can
also be combined, which helps to add to the variety. Maple chocolate
creams are made by dipping maple fondant into melted chocolate. Plain
fondant, chocolate fondant and maple fondant are all fine combined with
nuts. All sorts of candied fruits, preserved fruits and dried fruits are
delicious combined with fondant in making these creams. Candied peels
and candied ginger are also much used.


CHOCOLATE CREAMS WITH FRUIT CENTERS

Maraschino cherries, drained and dipped first in melted fondant flavored
with almond, and then coated with chocolate, are delicious.

Bits of candied pineapple dipped into fondant flavored with pineapple,
lemon or orange and then coated with the chocolate, are fine.

Work some thick pear preserves into fondant, add a little chopped
candied ginger, and when cool coat with chocolate. Or before coating
them with chocolate dip in fondant flavored with lemon or vanilla.

Peach preserves dried in the oven, cooled and dipped in almond flavored
fondant, then coated with chocolate, is another good combination.

Whole strawberry preserves, drained of all juice, rolled in powdered
sugar, then coated with chocolate, are delicious.

Chopped candied cherries mixed into melted fondant either flavored with
vanilla or almond, formed into bonbon shape, then coated with melted
chocolate, are fine. Some of these cherry centers may be left white and
red, or the fondant used can be colored rose and pink with a few drops
of red fruit coloring.

Candied lemon rind, orange rind or citron can be cut up into small
pieces, worked into fondant, and then coated with chocolate. Yellow
fondant flavored with orange or lemon can be used with orange and lemon
rind.

Stiff marmalades and jellies can be cut into fancy shapes, dipped into
melted fondant of different flavors, and when cool coated with
chocolate.

Dates and raisins chopped fine and worked into fondant make excellent
centers. Mix some chopped dates with maple fondant for these centers.
Chopped dates and chopped figs or raisins combined and worked into maple
fondant are delicious.

California grapes dipped into melted fondant, and then into melted
chocolate make another variety of creams.


CHOCOLATE CREAMS WITH NUT CENTERS

Almonds, walnuts, pecans, hazelnuts, hickory-nuts, peanuts and Brazil
nuts can all be used in making centers for chocolate cream candies. The
nuts should be first blanched. Put two cupfuls of fondant in a double
boiler and melt, add a teaspoonful of lemon juice, stir over the fire
until melted; then take the nut meats, one by one, on a candy dipper or
fork and dip into the fondant. Lay on oiled or paraffine paper until
cold, then dip into melted chocolate. The fondant may be divided if
preferred and flavored with different flavors, and prepared with
different colors. Cherry flavored fondant is excellent with almonds.
Vanilla goes well with most nuts, and many like peppermint flavor with
nuts. Maple flavored fondant is always excellent with nuts.

Take equal quantities of chopped walnuts, hickory-nuts and almonds.
These should be chopped fine. Take an equal amount of fondant and melt
in a double boiler, and stir in the nut meats; flavor with vanilla if
the fondant has not already been flavored. When the fondant mixture
begins to harden mold into bonbon shape, and place on paraffine paper or
a sheet of clean tin. When entirely cool coat with chocolate.

Delicious bonbons can be made by grinding up pistachio nuts until fine,
and mixing with an equal quantity of pale green or white fondant
flavored with pistachio or almond. When cool enough shape in bonbons,
and coat with chocolate.

Chop equal quantities of almond nut meats and candied cherries, or
preserved cherries. Mix with a little fondant, roll into balls and coat
with chocolate, and you have a delicious cream.

Take walnut meats and dip in melted fondant, and when this has become
firm dip in more fondant of a different flavor and color. Repeat this
twice, then when cold coat with chocolate. Any kind of nut meats may be
used in the same way.


HOW TO COAT CHOCOLATE CREAMS

Most confectioners use a bittersweet chocolate with which they coat
their chocolates; this may be obtained at any good confectionery shop
and will cost about fifty cents a pound, but if this is not obtainable a
bittersweet chocolate can be made by combining sweetened chocolate with
Baker's bitter chocolate. Use half and half of each, and blend well
together before dipping the chocolates in it. Any one who likes the
bitter tang in the chocolates may use the bitter chocolate by itself. A
small amount of cocoa butter may be added to the melted chocolate; this
will make it go further and add to the glossy effect without being
harmful.

Melt your chocolate in a double boiler, and always be very careful not
to get any water into it or it will not harden, but be messy and
sticky. Stir while melting and it will do so more quickly, and the less
heat it takes to melt the chocolate the better. After the chocolate is
melted it can be placed in bowls or cups for dipping. There are two or
three ways of coating chocolate creams. Most confectioners put the
chocolate on with their fingers, but if one does not care to do this
they can be dipped with a candy dipper or fork into the melted
chocolate. They may also be coated with a thin bladed knife or spatula.
If you are going to put the chocolate on with the hands it should be
allowed to get nearly cool, and then knead well. Only use a small
portion at once or it will get too hard, then you must work quickly in a
warm room. Use your right hand for coating, and throw the centers into
the chocolate with your left. Work the chocolate up around the centers
quickly, and then drop on a waxed paper or on clean, smooth tin. String
up a little of the chocolate on top and twirl with the fingers to give
that twist that is found on most bought creams. For many dipping is much
easier. Drop the centers into the melted chocolate, turn over, lift out
with wire dipper or fork, with a knife scrape off any surplus chocolate
and place on waxed paper or on tin. Set in a cool place immediately to
harden. If a knife is used for coating, place a little of the chocolate
on oiled or waxed paper, and place the centers on top of it; this forms
the bottoms. Then with a knife spread chocolate over the sides, dipping
the knife into the chocolate until the centers are entirely coated. If
the chocolate hardens before all the creams are dipped it can be melted
again.


BONBONS MADE WITH COCOANUT

Cocoanut cubes are made by taking two cupfuls of fondant and melting it
in a double boiler, stir in one cupful of grated cocoanut and mix in
well. Pour this into a square box lined with paraffine paper; it should
be about an inch thick. When cold cut into squares. This cocoanut
mixture may be variously tinted and given unusual and elusive flavors,
and thus one may have a variety. Another way to make cocoanut cubes is
to melt some fondant and pour half of it in a square or oblong box
lined with paraffine paper. Then cover this over with cocoanut a half
inch, then pour over the remainder of the fondant. This is especially
good if the fondant is colored rose or pink. When cold cut into cubes.

A combination of chocolate fondant and cocoanut is excellent. Melt a
cupful of chocolate fondant and pour into a square or oblong box lined
with paraffine paper. Melt a cup of pink or white fondant in a double
boiler and stir in one-half cupful of cocoanut. Pour over the chocolate
fondant.

Snowballs can be made by taking one cupful of fondant and melting it,
then stir in one-half cupful of grated cocoanut. Form into balls, roll
in beaten egg white and then roll in grated cocoanut until thickly
covered. Place on paraffine paper until they harden.

Cocoanut drops are made by mixing with two cupfuls of melted fondant
one-half cupful of grated cocoanut and one-fourth cupful of finely
chopped candied cherries. Add a teaspoonful of juice of maraschino
cherries. Drop from a spoon on paraffine paper, and press a candied
cherry in the center of each bonbon.


NUT BONBONS

Divide some fondant into four parts. Color one part pink, one part
yellow, add to the third violet, and to a fourth green pistachio
coloring. Flavor each portion with a different flavoring extract. Take
some halved walnut meats and blanch. Form the fondant into round balls
the size of hickory-nuts; put a half walnut on each side of the fondant
ball and press them together so that the fondant is between the two
halves of the walnuts. By using some chocolate fondant, some maple
fondant and some white fondant you can have these bonbons in seven
colors.

Chop up a half cupful each of almonds, pecans and walnuts and mix with
enough fondant to make it of the right consistency to mold into bonbon
shape with the hands. Dip in melted maple fondant, or chocolate fondant.

Chop up some almonds fine and mix with some fondant, using about a half
cupful of nut meats to each cupful of fondant, flavor with almond, and
pour into a square or oblong box lined with paraffine paper. Melt some
white fondant and mix with it a half cupful of chopped candied cherries,
pour over the nut fondant, and when this has cooled pour over another
layer of nut fondant. Cut into cubes and press an almond in some of the
cubes and candied cherries in others.


FRUIT BONBONS

Remove the stones from nice large dates, fill the cavities with fondant
of different flavors and colors. If preferred these may be dipped in
fondant, or left as they are. Prunes may be stuffed with fondant or a
fondant and nut mixture, and then dipped in fondant of different colors.
Chop up some figs until fine, work into this an equal quantity of nut
meats. Roll up into balls; if not moist enough add a little cream. Dip
into melted fondant. Raisins are also good prepared in this manner. Dip
into maple fondant.

Melt some fondant in a double boiler, and stir into it candied orange
peel cut into tiny strips. Pour in a lined box or greased square or
oblong pan. When partly cool mark off into squares and decorate the top
of each square with a tiny star cut out of the candied orange peel. The
fondant should be flavored with orange. Candied lemon peel can be used
in the same way, and in this case the fondant should be flavored with
lemon. When cool cut into squares. Candied cherries can be cut up into
bits and stirred into pale pink fondant flavored with rose. Press little
hearts cut out of candied cherries in the center of each square.

To make a delicious fruit loaf melt one-half cupful of fondant, add a
half teaspoonful extract of almond or vanilla, and stir in two
tablespoonfuls of candied cherries cut in quarters, and a tablespoonful
of chopped angelica. When mixed pour into a lined candy box in an even
layer. Melt one-half cupful of chocolate fondant and stir into it
one-fourth cupful of chopped dates and flavor with vanilla. Pour over
the other layer in the box. Melt one-half cupful of maple fondant and
stir into it one-fourth cupful of chopped nut meats, and pour over the
other layers. Cover with paraffine paper and set where it will cool
quickly. When firm, break down the sides of the box and cut into slices
or cubes. Any kind of fruit may be used in the different layers.

Sections of oranges or tangerines may be dipped in fondant, but one must
be careful that they are not broken in any way to let the juice escape
as this will probably soften the fondant and make it messy.

Any preserved fruit, dried in the oven, cooled and then dipped in
different colored fondant makes delicious bonbons. Preserved
strawberries can be dipped in fondant colored pink and flavored with
strawberry extract. Preserved cherries can also be dipped in pink or
white fondant flavored with almond or cherry. Pears and yellow peaches
are good dipped in yellow fondant flavored with lemon or orange. Quince
preserves are also good dipped.


ASSORTED BONBONS

The plain white fondant flavored with vanilla is good dipped in the
pink, yellow, green or violet fondant, or in maple fondant; form the
white fondant in pretty bonbon shapes before dipping.

Pretty marbles can be made by taking a small piece of two or more
colored fondants in the hand and rolling them around until they become
smooth and round and beautifully streaked with the different colors.
Place on paraffine paper and turn often to prevent their flattening on
one side, until firmly set.

Roll out some of the different colored fondant in sheets, place one upon
the other, roll gently with the rolling pin until the colors are blended
together, then cut into bars or squares.

Form fondant into tiny cones, tucking into each cone a bit of preserved
ginger, well dried before using. Dip in different colored fondant. Some
can be dipped in melted chocolate also.

Work into a half cupful of fondant one teaspoonful of ground cinnamon,
flavor with a drop or two of oil of cinnamon, and form into balls. Dip
these in chocolate fondant. Other spice bonbons can be made by using a
few drops of the oil of allspice, cloves or nutmeg in flavoring the
fondant.

Peppermint and wintergreen wafers can be made by taking some white
fondant and coloring it a pale green and flavoring it with peppermint
extract. Drop from a spoon on paper the size of a quarter. Wintergreen
wafers can be made by coloring the fondant pink and flavoring with
wintergreen extract.

Take some fondant and flavor with orange and color a deep yellow; roll
out in a long strip about two inches wide. Flavor some more fondant with
banana extract and color a light yellow. Form this into a long round
stick shape and place in the center of strip. Bring the two edges of the
outside fondant together, and press together. Cut off neatly with a
knife in half-inch pieces when cool.


HOW TO DIP WITH FONDANT

Just a word in regard to the dipping, and preparing the fondant for
dipping. Place the fondant in a double boiler or in a bowl and place the
bowl in a saucepan of hot water. The fondant should be melted to about
the consistency of thick cream. Be careful that it does not get too hot
or it will become a syrup again. Stir occasionally while melting and
this will help it to melt not only evenly, but more quickly. If the
fondant is very dry a few drops of water may be added, but be very
careful not to get too much water in or the bonbons will not harden up
well. When ready to dip remove the fondant from the fire, but let the
bowl remain in the hot water. Take up the centers to be dipped on a
candy dipper or fork and drop into the bowl, then lift them out, scrape
off any surplus fondant with a knife, and drop on oiled or waxed paper
or smooth tin slightly oiled. These will harden very quickly. One can
make a twist on the top of them like the chocolates, but this must be
done just as soon as dipped. The fondant can be flavored and colored in
any way desired while it is melting.


ORIENTAL BONBONS

These cream chocolates are more difficult to make than the common
chocolate creams, but one is well repaid for the trouble for they are
simply delicious. To make them take two cupfuls of granulated sugar,
one-half cupful of water, one-half teaspoonful of glycerine and
one-fourth teaspoonful of cream of tartar or three drops acetic acid.
Stir until the sugar is dissolved, then wipe down the sides of the
kettle to remove all sugar crystals. Boil to exactly 238 degrees, then
pour out on a platter or marble slab and flavor with one-half
teaspoonful of vanilla. Allow it to stand undisturbed until all heat has
left it, then place over it the white of one egg beaten until very
stiff, then cream the batch as you do in making fondant, but work it
very slowly, as this gives it more chance to become firm. If it is too
soft to work up in shape of bonbons, just let stand a little while, and
then shape. In molding remember the less they are handled the easier
they will be to coat, as handling has a tendency to soften them. Coat
immediately after being molded, and this must be done as quickly as
possible. Place on paraffine paper and let stand a day or so, and then
the centers will be like whipped cream, as the white of egg will mellow
the cream.




CHAPTER IX

POP-CORN SWEETS


EXCELLENT, inexpensive and nourishing sweets may be made with popped
pop-corn. For making these sweets the pop-corn kernels should be large,
crisp and with no hard centers. The best way to pop corn to obtain these
results is first to use good pop-corn, then put enough corn in the
popper just to cover the bottom of popper. Pour some cold water over it
and hold the popper some distance from the heat at first. Continue this
for three or four minutes, then place more directly over the heat. The
fire over which corn is popped should be hot, even and steady. Shake the
popper quickly and steadily until nearly all the grains have popped.
When commencing to pop almost every grain should pop open at once. The
cold water poured over the corn causes a steam to generate; this makes
the corn swell and burst open from the very center in large, crisp,
fine flavored kernels. If not ready to make the candy as soon as the
corn is popped store in paraffine bags or glass jars and close up
tightly, since popped corn soon gets tough if exposed to dampness.


MOLASSES POP-CORN BALLS

Take one cupful of light brown sugar and one cupful of New Orleans
molasses, half a cupful of water and boil to the hard ball stage, then
add two tablespoonfuls of butter. Boil to the crack stage, then add a
half teaspoonful of soda and pour over some freshly popped corn in a
bowl. Stir until the syrup is evenly distributed over the corn, but be
careful not to break the grains in doing so. Dip the hands in water,
take a portion of the pop-corn up into the hands and press into nice
even round balls.


CHOCOLATE POP-CORN BALLS

Pop some corn and pick out only the large crisp, tender grains. Place in
a saucepan two cupfuls of granulated sugar, one-half cupful of water
and one-fourth teaspoonful of cream of tartar. Boil until it spins a
thread or forms a hard ball when dropped in cold water; then flavor with
a teaspoonful of vanilla. Pour part of this sugar syrup over the
pop-corn, stirring until the syrup is evenly distributed through the
pop-corn; while doing this let the remainder stand on the back of the
stove. Form into tiny pop-corn balls with the fingers, boil the
remaining syrup to the crack stage, then dip each ball into this, and
place on paraffine paper until cool. When cool dip into melted sweet
chocolate.


SNOW POP-CORN BALLS

Take two cupfuls of granulated sugar, one-half cupful of white corn
syrup, one-half cupful of water and a pinch of cream of tartar. Boil to
the soft ball stage, then flavor with a few drops of peppermint extract
or a half teaspoonful of vanilla and pour over the stiffly beaten whites
of two eggs. Beat up until light and it begins to harden, then stir in
two cupfuls of crisp pop-corn grains. Dip the hands into corn-starch and
mold while still warm into small balls. Roll each ball in cocoanut, and
then wrap in paraffine paper to keep their shape until cold. Unwrap and
heap on plate.


ICE POP-CORN BALLS

Take two cupfuls of granulated sugar, one-half cupful of water and
one-fourth teaspoonful of cream of tartar. Boil to the crack stage and
pour over pop-corn in a bowl, stirring until the syrup is well mixed
with the corn. Form into small balls with the hands. While still warm
roll the balls in pulverized or finely chopped rock candy to simulate
ice.


POP-CORN DAINTY

Place in a saucepan two cupfuls of granulated sugar, one-half cupful of
water and one-fourth teaspoonful of cream of tartar. Boil to firm ball.
Just before removing from the fire stir into the syrup a pint of
pop-corn that has been run through the food chopper. Pour over the
stiffly beaten whites of two eggs, flavor with a teaspoonful of vanilla
and beat up until light and foamy; then pour into greased pans, and cut
into squares, or drop from a spoon on paraffine paper, and press a whole
pop-corn grain into the top of each. These are also nice if crystallized
pop-corn in different colors is used for decoration.


CRYSTALLIZED POP-CORN

Take two cupfuls of granulated sugar, two tablespoonfuls of white corn
syrup and one-half cupful of cream and boil to the soft ball stage.
Divide into four portions, pouring each portion on a buttered plate, and
flavoring differently with strawberry, orange, maple and melted
chocolate respectively. Beat the portion on each plate until creamy,
coloring the portion that is flavored with strawberry pink, the orange
flavored with yellow. One portion may be left white if liked, or the
amount of syrup may be doubled and divided into more portions. Place
each kind of the mixture in cups or bowls. Select very large, crisp
kernels of corn and dip one by one into the different mixtures until all
is used. Dry them on greased or waxed paper. One may use a hat pin to
dip with. These grains may be used to decorate other sweets or may be
served in little baskets or odd receptacles.


POP-CORN BARS

Take two cups of sugar, one-half cupful of water and boil to the hard
ball stage. Add vanilla flavoring or any desired flavoring. Crush some
fresh pop-corn with a rolling pin, and stir into the syrup. When the
corn has been perfectly mixed with the syrup press into a square or
oblong buttered pan to the depth of about an inch, patting it smooth on
top. When cool cut into bars with a very sharp knife.


MAPLE POP-CORN BARS

Cook two cupfuls of maple sugar and one cupful of cream to the hard ball
stage. Beat up until it begins to turn creamy, then stir in a pint of
large, crisp kernels. See that the syrup is well mixed through the corn.
Turn into a square or oblong pan that has been well buttered and press
until flat on top, but not hard enough to crush the kernels. If liked
it can be shaped into bars with the hands, and there will not be so much
danger of crushing the kernels. If shaped in a pan cut into bars with a
sharp knife.


POP-CORN MACAROONS

Run some freshly popped corn through the food chopper, or else chop up
with a knife until fine. To a cupful of these add an equal quantity of
blanched almonds that have been pounded to a paste. Put these together
in a bowl. Beat up whites of three eggs until stiff, then add about
one-half a cupful of sugar and beat up for about five minutes. Mix the
pop-corn and paste into this slowly until thoroughly blended. Drop from
a spoon on oiled or buttered paper in a pan and sprinkle with powdered
sugar. Bake in a moderate oven for about twenty minutes. The centers of
these can be decorated with crystallized pop-corn.


CHEROKEE CRISP

Take two cupfuls of light brown sugar, one-fourth cupful of New Orleans
molasses, and one-half cupful of water. Melt over the fire until all
the sugar is dissolved, add two tablespoonfuls of butter. Sprinkle some
salt over a quart of freshly popped corn in a bowl. Flavor the syrup
with a teaspoonful of vanilla after it has reached the hard crack stage
and pour over the corn. Turn out on a large platter or marble slab and
work until a very thin sheet. When cold break into pieces.


POP-CORN ALMOND NOUGAT

Take two cupfuls of white sugar, one-fourth cupful of water and
one-fourth cupful of corn syrup. Melt over the fire until the sugar is
dissolved, then stir in one cupful of chopped pop-corn and one-half
cupful of chopped almonds. Boil to the hard crack stage, flavor with a
little almond extract, and pour over buttered pans in thin sheets. When
cold break into pieces or cut into squares with a sharp knife.


POP-CORN BRITTLE

Take a cupful of granulated sugar, one cupful of brown sugar, one-half
cupful of golden corn syrup and one-fourth cupful of water. Melt to a
syrup, then boil to the hard ball stage, add one-fourth cupful of butter
and boil until it begins to turn color or to the hard crack stage. Place
in a bowl two quarts of freshly popped corn and one cupful chopped
peanuts. Pour the syrup over the corn and stir until all the kernels and
nuts are covered with it. If not to be so thick with pop-corn and nuts
use only a quart of pop-corn.


POP-CORN FUDGE

Take two cupfuls of white sugar, one cupful of milk, two tablespoonfuls
of butter and a pinch of salt. Boil to the soft ball stage. Flavor with
a half teaspoonful of almond extract, then stir in one cupful of chopped
pop-corn and one-half cupful of chopped peanuts or any nuts desired.
Stir until creamy and pour out on buttered pans, and when cool cut into
squares.




CHAPTER X

MACAROONS AND MISCELLANEOUS SWEETS


UNDER this head you will find recipes for making macaroons, which are
closely allied to candies; and a number of sweets not classified.


ALMOND MACAROONS

To the beaten whites of six eggs add eight ounces of blanched and
powdered almonds. With the yolks of the eggs beat one pound of powdered
sugar; add the grated rinds of two lemons, a little sliced citron and
one-fourth pound of flour, and mix well together. Beat lightly into this
the almond whip. Drop from a spoon on greased paper, and bake in a
moderate oven until done.


CREAM MACAROONS

Beat the whites and the yolks of six eggs separately. Add to the yolks
three pounds of powdered sugar and the same amount of flour. Add the
whites of the eggs and enough flavored whipped cream to mix well; pour
into molds, and bake a delicate brown.


JASMINE MACAROONS

Into the whites of six eggs beaten until stiff mix one cupful of
powdered sugar; then beat into this some jasmine flowers. Make into
small cakes, sprinkle with sugar, and bake in a moderate oven.


QUEEN MACAROONS

Mix the beaten whites of six eggs with the yolks of four; add one cupful
of sugar and flour and a small quantity of coriander seed. Drop from a
spoon on waxed paper and bake in a moderate oven.


CHOCOLATE MACAROONS

Take one-fourth pound of grated chocolate, three ounces of blanched and
pounded almonds, and a half cupful of granulated or powdered sugar. Mix
well together, then make into a soft paste with the stiffly beaten
whites of eggs. Drop by teaspoonfuls on greased paper. Bake about
one-half hour in a moderate oven.


COCOANUT MACAROONS

Take one cup of sugar, two cupfuls of grated cocoanut, and two
tablespoonfuls of flour. Blend well together; then make into a paste
with the stiffly beaten whites of three eggs.


HICKORY-NUT MACAROONS

Beat up the whites of three eggs until stiff, add slowly one cup of
sifted granulated sugar, or powdered sugar and one cupful of hickory-nut
meats chopped fine, and rolled. Bake slowly in a moderate oven until a
light brown. If desired these can be flavored with a little vanilla,
about a half teaspoonful. All macaroons should be dropped by spoonfuls
on greased paper.


PEANUT MACAROONS

Pass one cupful of peanuts through a food chopper, using the fine
cutter. Place in a bowl and add one cupful of powdered sugar, one
tablespoonful of flour and blend together into a paste with the whites
of two or three eggs beaten until stiff. Drop from a spoon on greased
paper and bake in the oven for about thirty minutes or until a light
brown in color. A halved peanut can be placed in the center of each
macaroon before baking if desired.


CHERRY MACAROONS

Take a cupful of almonds, chop and rub into a paste, add a cupful of
sugar, then add gradually the whites of three eggs. Chop a few candied
cherries fine and stir in. Drop from a spoon on buttered paper, place a
candied cherry in the center of each macaroon, and bake in a moderate
oven.


COFFEE MACAROONS

Blanch a half pound of almonds and pound to a paste. Mix into this two
tablespoonfuls of very strong coffee in liquid form. Use enough coffee
to form into a paste; then add the stiffly beaten whites of four eggs
and two cupfuls of white sugar. Shape into macaroons, and place on
greased or paraffine paper on a pan. Bake for about ten minutes in a hot
oven. Decorate the centers with a candied cherry or any candied fruit.


CHOCOLATE MACAROONS

Grate four ounces of chocolate very fine and mix with it a tablespoonful
of flour, a teaspoonful of cinnamon, one cupful of powdered sugar, and a
pinch of cream of tartar. Stir this gradually into the stiffly beaten
whites of six eggs, and add a teaspoonful of vanilla. Line pans with
oiled or waxed paper and drop by spoonfuls on this, and bake in a slow
oven for about twenty or thirty minutes. The centers of these can be
decorated with halves of walnut, pecan or hickory-nut meats.


PISTACHIO MACAROONS

Pound a half pound of pistachio nuts to a paste, add to this an equal
amount of almond paste, and two cupfuls of sugar. Work into this slowly
the stiffly beaten whites of six eggs, or enough to make the paste of
the right consistency for macaroons. Bake in a moderate oven. These make
pretty pale green macaroons.


CINNAMON MACAROONS

Run through a chopper one cupful of almonds, then rub into a paste, mix
with an equal quantity of sugar, a tablespoonful of ground cinnamon,
one-fourth cupful of finely grated chocolate, then work in carefully the
whites of four eggs. Drop on greased paper, and bake in a moderate oven.


MARSHMALLOWS

Soak two ounces of gelatine in one-half cupful of water for an hour.
Boil two cupfuls of sugar, one-half cup of water, and one-fourth
teaspoonful of cream of tartar until it spins a thread. Pour the
gelatine on a platter and over this pour the syrup. Beat up for twenty
or thirty minutes. Flavor with a teaspoonful of vanilla, if desired,
adding it just before the beating up. Pour into well greased cake tin;
let stand till solid. Turn out on powdered sugar, cut in squares, and
roll in powdered sugar, and keep in a closed jar or box.


COCOANUT MARSHMALLOWS

Take two cupfuls of sugar, add a half cupful of water and heat until the
sugar is dissolved, then stir in one-half box of gelatine that has been
soaked for a few hours in a little water. Let stand until partially
cool, then add a pinch of salt, a teaspoonful of vanilla, a cupful and a
half of shredded cocoanut, and the stiffly beaten whites of three eggs.
Stir well, then pour into deep pans well dusted with corn-starch and
powdered sugar. The mixture should be at least a half inch thick. Turn
out on powdered sugar and corn-starch, cut into cubes, and roll in the
powdered and corn-starch mixture until each marshmallow is well coated,
then roll in cocoanut.


ORANGE MARSHMALLOWS

Soak two ounces of gelatine in one cupful of orange juice until
dissolved, then strain through cheese-cloth, put into saucepan in a pan
of hot water on the stove and add one cup of sugar. Stir the mixture
until it is thick and white. Heat until a little stirred on a cold plate
will form a creamy ball, remove from the fire and whip into the mixture
the stiffly beaten whites of three eggs. Flavor with orange extract,
using about a teaspoonful. Whip with silver fork until it begins to
thicken. Pour into pan well dusted with corn-starch and powdered sugar;
when cool cut in squares and roll in powdered sugar.


BUTTERCUPS

Take two cupfuls of granulated sugar, one-half cupful of water and
one-half teaspoonful of cream of tartar and boil to the crack stage.
Remove from the fire, flavor with one teaspoonful of lemon extract and
color yellow with a few drops of yellow fruit or vegetable coloring.
When cool enough to handle, pull the yellow candy in a long sheet about
two inches wide. In the center of this lay a roll of white or chocolate
fondant as long as the strip of candy. Wrap the yellow candy around
this fondant, and pull out gently in the hand until you cannot tell
where it has been joined. When about cool cut with scissors into lengths
of an inch or less.

HODGE-PODGE CANDY

Place in a bowl one cupful of chopped roasted peanuts, one cupful of
chopped pecan meats, one cupful of grated cocoanut, one-half cupful of
finely chopped citron, one-fourth cupful each of candied orange and
lemon peel, two teaspoonfuls of vanilla and two tablespoonfuls of lemon
juice. Take two cupfuls of brown sugar, one cupful of granulated sugar,
one cupful of molasses, and one-half teaspoonful of salt. Boil to the
soft ball stage, then add two squares of chocolate and a tablespoonful
of butter. Boil to the hard ball stage, add one teaspoonful of vanilla,
then pour over the nut and fruit mixture in the bowl. Stir until it
begins to get creamy and thick, then put into the pans quickly,
spreading it even with a spoon. Mark off into squares, and when cool
cut. This can be varied by adding different kinds of fruits and nuts.


CANDIED SWEET POTATO BALLS

Take some good sweet potatoes, peel them, and then scoop out little
balls with a vegetable scoop. Boil these balls in slightly salted water
until tender enough to pierce with a splint. Remove from the fire and
drain off the water. Take two cupfuls of sugar and one-half cupful of
water and cook to a thick syrup, add a teaspoonful of vanilla and part
of the potato balls, dropping them in carefully to prevent breaking. Let
them simmer until they are coated with a thick coating and are
transparent or clear. Remove one at a time with a skimmer or fork, and
drop on paraffine paper. These should harden up on the outside, and make
a delicious confection.


PERSIAN CONFECTION

Take two cupfuls of granulated sugar and dissolve in one-half cupful of
pineapple juice. Place over the fire in a double boiler, and when it
boils add an ounce of best gelatine that has been soaked in a little
water. Cook for twenty minutes, then stir in one cupful of finely
chopped dates and one-half cupful of finely chopped almonds. Stir well,
then pour into a pan dusted with corn-starch and powdered sugar. Let
stand for twelve hours, and then cut into squares and roll in powdered
sugar.


TURKISH CONFECTION

Take two cupfuls of granulated sugar and one-half cupful of water, place
in a double boiler and bring to a boil, then add one ounce of best
gelatine (pink or red gelatine can be used) that has been dissolved in a
half cupful of cold water. Bring to the boiling point and let it simmer
for twenty minutes. Remove from the fire and add one cupful of orange
juice, two tablespoonfuls of lemon juice, the grated rind of one orange,
and the grated rind of one-half lemon. Dust a pan with corn-starch and
powdered sugar, pour in the mixture and let stand for about twelve hours
or until perfectly cool and firm. Cut into cubes and dust with powdered
sugar.


ARABIAN CONFECTION

Take two cupfuls of granulated sugar, one-fourth teaspoonful of cream of
tartar and one-half cupful of water. Boil to the soft ball stage, then
add two ounces of best gelatine which has been soaked in three-fourths
cupful of water for about two hours or until dissolved, juice of one
lemon and one cupful of finely chopped figs, or figs and dates mixed.
Stir until the mixture thickens, then pour into pan dusted with
corn-starch and powdered sugar to an inch or half inch in depth. Let
stand until perfectly cool and firm, then cut into cubes and dust with
powdered sugar.


HONEYCOMB CANDY

Place in a saucepan two cupfuls of granulated sugar, one-half cupful of
water, one tablespoonful of butter and two teaspoonfuls of cream of
tartar. Boil to the hard ball stage. Just before removing from the fire
add one teaspoonful of vanilla or any flavoring desired, and a little
coloring if you wish a colored candy. Pour on a buttered plate or pan,
and when cool enough to handle pull quickly with ends of fingers.
Stretch out on board to harden. Cut into strips. If rightly made this
candy will look like honeycomb, being porous and brittle when cold.


TURKISH DELIGHT

Soak the contents of a box of granulated gelatine in two-thirds cupful
of orange juice for fifteen minutes. Take off the fire, add the juice of
a lemon, one-half cupful of preserved pears, one-half cupful of candied
ginger and candied lemon peel combined. Pour into a pan dusted with a
mixture of corn-starch and powdered sugar. Let stand until cool, then
cut in cubes.


APPLE SWEETMEATS

Grate two large white raw apples into the unbeaten whites of two eggs,
beat up until thick and stiff, then gradually add one cupful of sugar.
Dissolve two tablespoonfuls of gelatine in a half pint of good cream,
sweeten to taste, and when cool beat up until light and firm and snow
white. Fold the apple mixture into the whipped cream and pour into
molds. Roll in powder after the bonbons have been turned out of the
molds.


CHOCOLATE ARABICS

Melt in a double boiler a cake of unsweetened chocolate. Melt in a bowl
some fondant flavored with any preferred flavoring. Buy some gum-drops
and dip these in the fondant and place on paraffine paper to harden;
then dip in the melted chocolate. A little vanilla can be added to the
melted chocolate. By dipping gum-drops in this manner their character is
entirely changed, and much improved.


ORIENTAL BONBONS

Soak a half pound of gum arabic in two cupfuls of water until soft. Stir
into it two cupfuls of confectioner's sugar and cook over the fire in a
double boiler until an opaque thick mass. When it forms a firm ball
remove from fire and stir in the stiffly beaten whites of two eggs,
one-half cupful of orange jelly and one-half cupful of grated cocoanut.
Make depressions in a pan of corn-starch and pour a little of the
mixture into each depression. When cool remove and dust with powdered
sugar.


CANDY POTATOES

Take two cupfuls of granulated sugar, one-half cupful of water, and
one-fourth teaspoonful of cream of tartar. Boil to the soft ball stage.
Work into this one-half cupful of nut meats that have been pounded to a
paste and one-half cupful of grated cocoanut. Pour on a platter or
marble slab and work with a spoon until it is cool enough to work with
the hands, and then knead until it is like dough. Sprinkle some ground
cinnamon on a sheet of waxed paper. Take pieces of this dough and form
into potato shape. Roll in the cinnamon. Lay on paper until firm.


DIVINITY HASH

Take two cupfuls of granulated sugar, one-half cupful of maple sugar,
one-half cupful of golden corn syrup, and a cupful of water, add a pinch
of cream of tartar. Boil to the soft ball stage. Add one teaspoonful of
vanilla, and pour over the stiffly beaten whites of two eggs. Have ready
one pound of chopped fruit, nuts and grated cocoanut and stir in just
before it is ready to pour into buttered pans. After pouring the syrup
over the whites of eggs beat up until light and foamy. Any kind of
fruit, such as dates, citron, figs, raisins, candied cherries and orange
and lemon peel can be used, and also any kinds of nuts. This is a hash,
but a delicious one.




CHAPTER XI

CAKE CONFECTIONERY AND LITTLE SWEETS


DELICIOUS bonbons may be made with cake and fondant, and then there are
many little sweets that are so closely allied to candies that they may
well be included in a book on candy-making. To make these confections
one needs to have fancy little cake cutters of all kinds, such as heart,
star, round, diamond, leaf, bird and animal shapes. If these are not
readily obtained a tinsmith will make them for you if you tell him just
what you desire. You will also need a pastry bag with a finely pointed
tube, and tiny gem pans.


BONBON CAKES

The cakes that are best for making bonbons are the sponge cake, pound
cake and angel food cake: these should be at least twenty-four hours
old, and then can be cut up into any shape desired without breaking or
crumbling. Scoop out little balls, using a vegetable scoop, from any of
these cakes and dip in melted fondant flavored with different flavors
and colored in different colors. If you are planning a luncheon or
entertainment it is nice to have these little cake bonbons to help carry
out the color scheme. Angel food cake cut in fancy shapes and dipped
into pink or rose fondant flavored with rose extract is good. Sponge
cake is nice dipped into yellow fondant flavored with orange or lemon,
or into chocolate fondant.

These little cake bonbons can be made with delicious fillings. Cut a
sheet of angel food cake, which should be about an inch thick, into tiny
hearts. With a small round cutter remove the center of each, leaving the
bottom one-fourth inch thick. Fill this little hollow with candied
pineapple or any candied fruit mixed with a little fondant, or with
chopped nuts worked into a little fondant. Then dip in red or pink
fondant; these are nice for St. Valentine's day or for bridal occasions.
Take some sponge cake and cut into slices about an inch thick, cut out
with a small star-shaped cutter. Cut out half-way through with a
smaller star cutter. Fill these hollows in with a chocolate custard.
Spread a little white of egg on edges of stars, and place two stars
together, then dip in yellow fondant, or chocolate fondant. Dip these
little cakes in the fondant with a fork just as you would other bonbons
and drop on paraffine paper to harden.

Little rose confections can be made by dipping small round cakes in rose
colored fondant, and laying on top of each a few candied rose petals,
arranged to look like a rose. Violet confections can be made by cutting
small round cakes out of angel food cake, dipping them in violet fondant
and decorating the top with candied violets.

Cut tiny stars out of a thin sheet of angel food cake or pound cake, dip
in white fondant, and cover the tops over with the tiny silver or gold
coated confectionery that one can obtain at the confectionery shops, and
you will have silver and gold stars, which will be nice for Christmas.
Cut some sponge cake or pound cake into little squares, dip into melted
maple fondant, and decorate the top with halved walnuts, pecans or
almonds. Cut some sponge or pound cake into slices an inch thick, then
cut into cubes, make a little slit in one side, slip in a bit of
preserved ginger, candied citron or orange rind. Dip in yellow fondant
flavored with lemon or orange. Cut out some sponge cake to resemble
sections of orange. Dip in orange fondant flavored with orange.

Little heart shaped cakes dipped in pink or white fondant and then
decorated in the center with little hearts cut out of candied cherries
are nice. Squares or rounds of angel food cake dipped in fondant, and
pressed with some sort of die, say a wish-bone, horseshoe, swastika or
flower, then the impression made filled in with a different colored
fondant carefully piped in with the pastry bag, are unique.

Cut out some of the cake with a leaf-shaped cutter. Dip into a
leaf-green fondant flavored with pistachio, and you will have pretty
cakes. The leaf can be veined with chocolate put on with the pastry bag
and pipe.

Cut out some sponge cake in shape of dominoes, dip in white fondant,
and then mark the dots as in dominoes with melted chocolate.

Slice some sponge cake a fourth of an inch thick, and cut out with a
cutter in small rounds. On one-half of these cakes spread jelly of
different kinds, such as peach, currant, and raspberry. Put the unspread
cakes on these, and cover with fondant. In flavoring the fondant use
what combines with the jelly used--almond flavoring with the peach
jelly, chocolate with currant and so on. Use differently colored
fondants and they will look very pretty.


SPICE NUTS

Take two eggs, one cupful of granulated sugar, one-fourth cupful of
almond meats, one-fourth cupful of citron, one-half teaspoonful each of
cinnamon, allspice and cloves, one cupful of flour, and one teaspoonful
of baking-powder. Cut the nuts and citron up very fine. Sift the flour
and baking-powder together and mix with the nuts, fruit and spices. Beat
up the eggs and sugar until light and thick, then gradually add the
flour mixture. The dough should be stiff enough so that it can be
formed into little balls about the size of a hickory-nut. If too stiff
add a little water, if not stiff enough add a little more flour to make
it of the right consistency. Drop on buttered tins about an inch apart
and bake in the oven until a light brown.


CHOCOLATE NUTS

Take one cupful of flour and add to it one tablespoonful of
baking-powder. Sift into a bowl and add one cupful of sugar. Mix well
together. Melt one-half cupful of grated chocolate in a tablespoonful of
hot water, add two teaspoonfuls of vanilla and half a teaspoonful of
soda. Beat up two eggs, add the chocolate and one-fourth cupful of
melted butter. Work into the flour and sugar mixture. The dough must be
stiff enough to form into balls the size of a hickory-nut. Drop on
greased tins an inch apart. When cool dip in chocolate fondant.


WALNUT WAFERS

Cream one cupful of butter with one and one-half cupfuls of sugar; add
three beaten eggs; put two cupfuls of chopped walnut meats into one
cupful of flour, and add this to the batter. Sift one teaspoonful of
baking-powder and one and one-half cupfuls of flour together, and add at
the last. Drop by spoonfuls on buttered tins, dust with granulated
sugar, and put a whole walnut meat on each one. Bake them in a moderate
oven.


PEANUT JUMBLES

Take two tablespoonfuls of butter, one cupful of sugar, one egg, half a
teaspoonful of soda, one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, one
tablespoonful of milk, and flour enough to make a soft dough. Roll thin
and cut with a jumble cutter, brush over with beaten egg and cover
lightly with chopped peanuts. Bake separately the small rounds cut from
the center.


COCOANUT JUMBLES

Beat half a cupful of butter and half a cupful of sugar to a cream,
flavor with a teaspoonful of vanilla, then add two eggs, a cupful of
freshly grated cocoanut, and two cupfuls of flour sifted with a level
teaspoonful of baking-powder. Pat and roll out thin on a well-floured
board, adding more flour if needed. Flour a jumble cutter well and cut
into rings. Brush the tops of the cakes with milk and sprinkle with a
mixture of granulated sugar and cocoanut. Place far enough apart on
buttered pan so that they will not touch when baked. Bake in a rather
hot oven until a pale brown.


FRUIT ROCKS

Cream one cup of sugar with two-thirds cup of butter, add one and a half
cupfuls of flour, two eggs, one cupful of English walnut meats, one
cupful of chopped raisins, one teaspoonful of cinnamon, one teaspoonful
of cream of tartar and one-half teaspoonful of soda dissolved in a
little water. Drop by teaspoonfuls on buttered tins an inch or more
apart. Press one-half of an English walnut meat or a raisin in the
center of each, and bake until a nice brown.


RAISIN SPIRALS

Take one cup of sugar, one-half cupful of butter and yolks of two eggs,
and beat to a cream. Add one cupful of sour milk and one cupful of
chopped raisins; one-half teaspoonful each of cinnamon and nutmeg.
Dissolve one teaspoonful of soda in a little of the milk. Just before
putting in the flour add the beaten whites of two eggs. Make a very
stiff dough and cut into thin strips about five inches long. Roll around
the finger and fry in butter a delicate brown.


FRUIT BARS

Mix together one cupful of butter and one cupful of brown sugar until
creamy, add two well-beaten eggs, one-half cupful of sour milk and scant
teaspoonful of soda if the milk is thoroughly sour, if not use only half
a teaspoonful. Beat up together, then add enough flour to make a dough
that will roll nicely but be careful not to get it too stiff. Flour the
board well, then roll out thin and cut with a narrow oblong cutter. Put
through a food chopper one pound of stoned dates and one-half pound of
figs. Work together and then roll in a thin sheet. Put a layer of this
fruit paste between every two of the cakes in sandwich fashion. Bake in
a hot oven. Marmalades or candied fruits or nut and fruit mixtures can
be used for these bars.


MAPLE DROPS

To a half cupful of maple syrup add one teaspoonful of melted butter,
one well-beaten egg and one cup of flour sifted with a teaspoonful of
baking-powder. Add a pinch of salt. Beat and drop by spoonfuls or
half-spoonfuls on buttered tin, and bake in a quick oven. Cover with
maple fondant.


GINGER CHIPS

Stir together a cupful of butter and one cupful of brown sugar. Add one
tablespoonful of ginger and one teaspoonful each of cloves and cinnamon.
Mix in two cupfuls of good baking molasses and the grated peel of a
large lemon. Add a teaspoonful of soda dissolved in a little hot water.
Mix in enough flour to make a stiff paste. Roll out very thin, a small
portion at a time, and cut into narrow strips about one inch wide and
four inches long. Bake in a moderate oven for ten minutes.


GINGER WAFERS

Stir one-fourth cupful of butter and one-half cupful of sugar to a
cream, add two eggs, the whites and yolks beaten separately. Add a half
cupful of flour or just enough to make a thin batter, mix well, then add
one tablespoonful of ginger, and the grated peel of a lemon. Drop by
spoonfuls on buttered tins, far enough apart not to run together. Bake
in a moderate oven, and when half done roll up into little cylinders,
and return to the oven and crisp until brown.


MARSHMALLOW CAKES

Blanch and dry gently in the open oven sufficient hickory-nut meats to
fill three-fourths of a cup. Cool and chop very finely. Beat three eggs,
yolks and whites together, until light. Add the nuts, two
tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar, a half teaspoonful of orange extract
and sufficient flour to form a soft dough. Roll out on board until about
an inch in thickness and cut in small diamonds that measure only two or
three inches from point to point. Lay on shallow greased tins and bake
to a pale brown in a moderate oven. Frost with marshmallow icing while
they are still warm.


GINGER NUTS

Take one pint of baking molasses and add one-half cupful of melted
butter, one cupful of brown sugar and one tablespoonful of powdered
ginger. Stir these ingredients well together, and while mixing add two
tablespoonfuls of candied lemon or orange peel, one tablespoonful of
candied angelica cut into small dice, and a teaspoonful of soda
dissolved in a little warm water. Having mixed all thoroughly together
break in one egg and work in as much flour to form a paste just stiff
enough to handle. Form into balls, and press a raisin or blanched almond
in the top of each, and bake on greased tins in a rather quick oven.


GERMAN GINGER BALLS

Beat up four eggs until very light and foamy; then add gradually a half
pound of light brown sugar, a teaspoonful of ginger, and one-half
teaspoonful of allspice or cinnamon, the juice of one lemon and
three-fourths cupful of pastry flour. Form with floured hands into small
balls, placing in the center of each a tiny piece of preserved ginger,
or candied ginger. Place in a greased baking-pan far enough apart not to
touch when baked. Bake in a quick oven.


CINNAMON CRISPS

Beat one-third cup of butter and two-thirds cup of sugar until light and
creamy, then add one teaspoonful of ground cinnamon, one and one-half
cups of flour and one teaspoonful of baking-powder together. Mix to a
dough with one-third cup of milk, using only enough to make the dough so
that it will roll out easily. Roll very thin, and cut into small
squares or rounds. Bake on greased tins in a moderate oven.


CHOCOLATE STICKS

Cream together one cupful of sugar, one tablespoonful of butter, the
yolk of one egg and one-half cup of milk. Melt one and one-half squares
of chocolate, add to the mixture, then add one cupful of flour, add
one-half cupful more of milk, and one-fourth cupful of flour into which
has been sifted one teaspoonful baking-powder and one-fourth teaspoonful
of soda. Bake in a sheet that will be about three-fourths of an inch
thick when baked. Cut into strips about one inch wide and three or four
inches long. When cool dip into pink fondant, then into melted
chocolate. Decorate the top of each strip with a half of a pecan or
hickory-nut meat.


ORANGE CAKES

Cream together one-half cupful of butter, one cup of sugar, add the
yolks of five eggs beaten thick, one-half cupful of milk, one and
three-fourths cupfuls of flour sifted with two level teaspoonfuls of
baking-powder. Add one teaspoonful of orange extract. Roll out and cut
in star or other fancy shape. Cover with yellow orange flavored fondant,
and sprinkle over the top with candied orange peel cut into bits.


COCOANUT DROPS

Sift together one and one-half cupfuls of flour and a rounding
teaspoonful of baking-powder. Beat up one egg until light, then beat
into it one-half cupful of sugar, add a half cupful of grated cocoanut
and a teaspoonful of grated lemon rind, then alternately the flour and
half a cupful of rich cream. Drop in little pats on greased pans which
have been dusted with flour. Have the cakes far enough apart so that the
batter will not run together. Sprinkle a little grated cocoanut over the
top of each cake and bake in a moderate oven.


ALMOND CAKES

Mix together one-fourth cupful of butter and a cupful of sugar to a
cream, add the beaten yolks of four eggs, one-fourth cupful of cream
and two cupfuls of flour in which has been placed one teaspoonful of
baking-powder. Roll out on a well-floured board about one-fourth of an
inch thick, cover with powdered sugar and cut into diamonds. Spread with
maple fondant, and sprinkle the cakes thickly with blanched and chopped
almonds.


PEANUT WAFERS

Beat together one-half cupful of nice white lard mixed with butter (half
and half of each) and one cupful of sugar, add one cupful of ground
peanuts, and one and one-half cupfuls of flour mixed together with one
teaspoonful of baking-powder, and one-third teaspoonful of salt. Add
one-half cupful of milk or water, or just enough to make a dough that
will roll thinly. It is best to mix the flour and milk in alternately.
Cut into small rounds and place a half peanut meat on top of each cake.


GERMAN WAFERS

Warm one-third cupful of butter, and stir in five eggs, one at a time.
Mix in one quart of sifted flour, and one teaspoonful each of vanilla
and banana extract. Spread over a buttered dripping pan and bake in a
hot oven until a delicate brown. Cut into squares, pick with a fork and
dip into powdered sugar.


JAPANESE WAFERS

Beat up the whites of two eggs until stiff, then add two tablespoonfuls
of rice flour and two tablespoonfuls of sugar. Work in one tablespoonful
of softened butter. Pour into a pan lined with paraffine or oiled paper,
making it as thin as possible. Bake in a moderate oven and roll around a
round stick, after cutting them in four inch squares.


ENGLISH WAFERS

Stir together one cupful of butter with one-half cupful of sugar, add
four eggs, the whites and yolks beaten separately, one-half cupful of
currants, and one-fourth teaspoonful of cinnamon. Add two tablespoonfuls
of strong rose water and three-fourths cup of flour, roll very thin and
bake on buttered tins for about five minutes or until a delicate brown;
cut into small squares, and dust with powdered sugar.


DELICIOUS TEA COOKIES

Cream together one-half cupful of butter and one cupful of sugar, add
four eggs, one cupful of chopped nut meats, one cupful of chopped
raisins, a teaspoonful of soda stirred in one cupful of good New Orleans
molasses, and one-half teaspoonful each of cinnamon and allspice. Add
enough flour to make a dough that will roll out thin. Mix all the
ingredients well together. Bake in a hot oven and ice or not as liked.


RAISIN COOKIES

Cream together one cupful of butter and one cupful of sugar, add two
eggs well beaten; then add one teaspoonful of soda and two teaspoonfuls
of cream of tartar dissolved in a little lukewarm water. Now stir in
three cupfuls of flour, one cupful of chopped raisins, one teaspoonful
of cinnamon, and one-fourth teaspoonful of nutmeg. Drop the batter in
spoonfuls on a well-buttered pan, being careful to leave room for the
cakes to spread. Bake in a moderate oven until a nice brown color.


LOVE DIAMONDS

Cream together one cupful of sugar and one-fourth cupful of butter, then
add one-half cupful of sweet milk. Sift with one cupful of flour one
teaspoonful of baking-powder and add half of it. Stir in two whites of
eggs beaten stiff, and then the remainder of the flour and a teaspoonful
of vanilla. Pour into a square pan and bake. When cool cut into
diamonds. Mix into a cupful of melted chocolate fondant a half cupful of
cocoanut, and spread the diamonds with this, or spread with a pink
fondant flavored with rose, and sprinkled over with grated cocoanut.


MARMALADE DIAMONDS

Cream together one-half cupful of butter and one cupful of granulated
sugar; then add the beaten yolks of three eggs, one-half cupful of
sweet milk; then work in two cupfuls of flour into which has been sifted
two teaspoonfuls of baking-powder, add the stiffly beaten whites of
three eggs and one teaspoonful of lemon extract. Pour into square pan
and bake. When cool cut into diamonds. On half of the cakes spread
lemon, orange or any good marmalade, and place the other halves on these
in sandwich fashion. Cover with yellow fondant flavored with lemon or
orange.


LEMON CAKES

Cream together one cupful of butter and one cupful of sugar, add two
eggs, one teaspoonful of soda dissolved in two tablespoonfuls of sweet
milk, and the grated rind and juice of one lemon. Add enough flour to
knead into a stiff dough, roll thin, cut into stars, rounds or squares.
Bake in a quick oven. Ice with lemon flavored fondant or icing.


MAPLE NUT WAFERS

Cream together one cupful of maple sugar and one-half cupful of butter,
add two eggs, the whites and yolks beaten separately. Sift and add two
thirds cupful of flour and one-half cupful of chopped nut meats. Sift in
the flour one teaspoonful of baking-powder. The batter should be of the
right consistency to spread thinly over a buttered pan; if too stiff add
a little milk. Sprinkle over the top with coarse chopped nuts. Bake
rather slowly and cut into squares before removing from the oven.


VANILLA WAFERS

Cream together one-third cupful of butter and one cupful of sugar, add
one egg, and one-fourth cup of sweet milk. Sift together one teaspoonful
of salt, one teaspoonful of baking-powder, with two and one-fourth
cupfuls of flour. Beat up, add a tablespoonful of vanilla. Pour into
pan, spreading thinly over it. Bake in a moderate oven.


CHOCOLATE DIAMONDS

Cream together one-half cupful of butter and one cupful of sugar. Sift
into three cupfuls of pastry flour two tablespoonfuls of baking-powder,
then add alternately with one cupful of sweet milk, and two eggs. Flavor
with one teaspoonful of vanilla. Bake in square layer cake tins, and
when cold cut into diamonds. On the half of these cakes spread a
chocolate paste made as follows: Beat some fresh butter with a wooden
spoon until it is soft and creamy. Add by degrees sufficient milk
chocolate, which has been reduced to a very fine powder, to make the
butter quite brown. Flavor with vanilla. Place the unspread cakes on top
of the spread ones in sandwich fashion, and ice with chocolate fondant,
or else use white fondant and sprinkle thickly with chopped almonds.


CORIANDER CAKES

Cream together one cupful of sugar and four eggs until thick and white,
then add one and a half cupfuls of flour into which has been sifted one
teaspoonful of baking-powder; then add two tablespoonfuls of coriander
seed and one teaspoonful of lemon extract. This should be a rather thick
sponge. Drop by spoonfuls on buttered pans or greased paper. Bake in a
hot oven to a golden brown.


PEACH BLOSSOM CAKES

Cream together one cupful of sugar and one-half cupful of butter, then
add one-half cupful of sweet milk. Sift into one cupful and a half of
flour two teaspoonfuls of baking-powder and stir in half of this, then
add the stiffly beaten whites of three eggs and then the remainder of
the flour and one-half teaspoonful of corn-starch. Pour into two square
pans and bake in a rather quick oven. When cool cut in small squares and
ice with pink fondant flavored with peach or rose extract or ice with
white fondant and sprinkle with pink pulverized sugar.


WILD ROSE CAKES

Cream together one-half cupful of butter and one cupful of sugar, then
add one-half cupful of sweet milk. Sift with one teaspoonful of
baking-powder into one cupful of flour, add part of the flour, then the
stiffly beaten whites of three eggs, then add the remainder of the
flour and a teaspoonful of rose or strawberry extract. Beat up
thoroughly and bake in sheets in two square pans. Cut into squares when
cool and ice with white fondant, and then with a pastry tube and pink
fondant place a wild rose in the center of each cake. Put a little
yellow or chocolate fondant in the center of each rose.


CREAM NUT PUFFS

Take one-half cupful of butter, one and one-half cupfuls of flour, eight
eggs and two cupfuls of hot water. Melt the butter in the water, set
over the fire and bring to a gentle boil. Then put in the flour and boil
until it leaves the sides of the saucepan, never ceasing to stir. One
minute is enough. Turn into a bowl to cool. Beat the eggs in one at a
time, beating one minute after each egg is put in, and then when all are
in beat for two or three minutes. Set on ice for an hour, then drop in
spoonfuls on buttered paper, being careful to get them far enough apart
so that they will not touch each other. Bake for about fifteen minutes
in a quick oven or until a nice brown. When cool make a slit in the side
of each and fill with a cream nut filling made as follows: Place in a
double boiler one cupful of milk, stir into this a tablespoonful of
corn-starch dissolved in a little milk, and gradually one egg beaten
light and one-half cupful of sugar. Stir until thick and smooth, then
stir in one-half cupful of finely chopped hickory or pecan nut meats.
Flavor with a teaspoonful of vanilla. When cold fill into the slits in
the cakes. These are delicious.


SPICE FINGERS

Beat five eggs and two cupfuls of light brown sugar until light, then
stir in one teaspoonful of cinnamon and one-half teaspoonful each of
cloves, allspice and nutmeg, also one-fourth cupful of almonds pounded
into a paste and two ounces of citron cut fine; then add one-half cupful
of molasses, and lastly the flour into which three level teaspoonfuls of
baking-powder have been sifted. Use enough flour to make it stiff enough
to roll thin. Cut into long strips about the length of a finger, and
about an inch wide. Bake on greased pan in a moderate oven. When cool
dip into chocolate fondant or any colored fondant. They are good dipped
into maple fondant.


CARAWAY COOKIES

Cream together one cupful of sugar, one-half cupful of butter till
light, then add one-fourth cup of water, and two eggs well beaten. Sift
with three cupfuls of flour two teaspoonfuls of baking-powder, and add
gradually, and then stir in a tablespoonful of caraway seeds. Mix the
ingredients well together, roll thin and cut out in fancy shapes or in
rounds. Bake in the oven until a delicate brown.


DAISY CAKES

Cream together one-fourth cup of butter and two-thirds cupful of sugar,
add one egg, one-half cupful of cold water or sweet milk, and the grated
rind of one orange. Sift a teaspoonful of baking-powder with one cupful
of flour and stir in. Beat steadily for five or eight minutes, then
turn into small greased gem pans. Bake in a moderate oven. Turn out of
the pans and when cold cover with orange fondant. With halved almonds
form a daisy in the center of each cake, using a center of candied
orange peel.


VANILLA SUGAR CAKES

Cream together one cupful of butter and one cupful of sugar, add two
well-beaten eggs, and three teaspoonfuls of vanilla extract. Sift with
three cupfuls of flour three teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. Roll out
thin, sprinkle with sugar and press in with the rolling pin. Cut into
rounds or squares and bake them a delicate brown on greased tins.


CHOCOLATE GINGER DROPS

Place in a bowl one cupful of molasses, half a cupful of sour cream, one
tablespoonful (level) of ginger, one teaspoonful of cinnamon and mix
well together, then stir in one-fourth cupful of melted butter. Dissolve
a teaspoonful of soda in a little water and add to the other
ingredients. Add enough sifted flour to make a drop batter. Drop from
spoon on greased pan, far enough not to touch each other when baked. Dip
each little drop cake into melted chocolate fondant. The dough should be
stiff enough so that the batter will not run over the pan but keep its
shape when baked. Try a bit of the batter in the oven before putting in
the cakes. These cakes should be baked in a quick oven.


COCOANUT FRUIT DROPS

Cream together one cup of sugar and one-half cup of butter, then add one
egg and one cup of milk. Mix one cupful of raisins in one-half cupful of
flour and add to the other ingredients with one and one-half cupfuls of
flour into which has been sifted two teaspoonfuls of baking-powder, then
add one-half cupful of grated cocoanut and one teaspoonful of vanilla.
Drop by spoonfuls on greased pans and bake in a moderate oven fifteen
minutes. Can be iced with white fondant and sprinkled over with grated
cocoanut.


PRESERVED FRUIT DAINTIES

Cream together one-half cupful of butter and one cupful of sugar, then
add three well-beaten eggs and one-half cupful of sweet milk. Mix smooth
and then add gradually one and a half cupfuls of flour into which has
been sifted one teaspoonful of baking-powder. The dough should be as
soft as it can be handled easily. Flour the board well and cut out into
rounds or squares, and place preserved fruit over the top. Any thick
preserved fruit may be used. Bake in a quick oven a nice brown.


JELLY JUMBLES

Cream together one-half cupful of butter and one cup of sugar, add one
well-beaten egg, then one and one-half cupfuls of flour into which have
been sifted one teaspoonful of baking-powder and one-fourth teaspoonful
of salt. Stir well, then add one-third cup of sweet milk or just enough
to form a dough that will roll out. Flour the board and roll very thin.
Cut out with a jumble cutter or a doughnut cutter. Spread half of these
with some good jelly, and place the unspread cakes on top of these in
sandwich fashion. Press the edges slightly together and bake on greased
pans.


CHOCOLATE NUT WAFERS

Cream together one-half cupful of butter with one cupful of sugar, add
two well-beaten eggs, and two squares of grated chocolate melted in
one-fourth cupful of hot water. Sift with two-thirds cup of flour one
teaspoonful of baking-powder, and a pinch of soda. Pour very thinly over
well-greased pans, and sprinkle generously over with chopped nut meats.
Bake in a moderate oven, and cut into small squares or diamonds.


LADY FINGERS

Beat five eggs up until light, add one-half cupful of powdered sugar and
beat up for several minutes; sift in with one cupful of flour one
teaspoonful of baking-powder and stir slowly. Place the batter in a
pastry bag and run it out through the tube on light brown paper (not
buttered), making each cake about a finger in length, and about
one-fourth inch wide; be careful not to get them too wide. Sprinkle with
granulated sugar, bake in a quick oven. Place the paper on a damp table
and let stand a few moments and the cakes can be readily removed. Stick
the cakes together back to back; this will make them round like fingers.
If liked a little jelly may be spread between the cakes before putting
them together.


FRUIT PUFFS

Take five eggs and beat the whites and yolks separately, stir in
gradually one and a half cupfuls of sugar, and one and a half cupfuls of
flour into which has been sifted two teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. Bake
in deep gem pans, filling about half full. Make a fruit filling as
follows: Place in a saucepan one-half cupful of finely chopped figs,
one-half cupful of dates, one-half cupful of chopped raisins and
one-half cupful of water. Let simmer slowly for an hour, then add a
teaspoonful of vanilla. Make slits in the sides of the cakes and fill
in with this fruit mixture. Cover with icing or chocolate fondant.


NUT TARTS

Prepare a short pastry crust, adding to the flour one tablespoonful of
powdered sugar. Roll out very thin. Dip fancy cutters in flour and cut
the pastry, then pierce the half of the cakes with a small circular
cutter. Some of the cakes can be made with one hole, some two and some
three. Place these on greased pans and bake in the oven a pale brown.
After removing make a paste with the stiffly beaten whites of two eggs,
two tablespoonfuls of finely chopped nut meats, two tablespoonfuls of
maple sugar, and a little cream if the paste is too thick to spread
nicely. Spread this on the cakes that have been left whole, and then
place the cakes with the holes on top. Fill up the depressions or holes
with jelly, marmalade or fondant.




Index


    ALMOND CAKES, 167
    Almond Macaroons, 135
    Almond Nougat, Brown, 63
    Almond Toffee, 65
    Apple Sweetmeats, 147
    Arabian Confection, 146
    Assorted Bonbons, 115

    BARLEY FUDGE, 52
    Bonbon Cakes, 153
    Bonbons, 103
    Bonbons with Cocoanut, 110
    Brown Almond Nougat, 63
    Burnt Almond Fudge, 46
    Buttercups, 142
    Butternut and Maple Cream, 68
    Butternut Caramels, 58
    Butter-Scotch, 32
    Butter-Scotch, French, 33

    CAKE CONFECTIONERY, 153
    Candied Cherry Foam, 97
    Candied Chestnuts, 69
    Candied Sweet Potato Balls, 144
    Candy Potatoes, 149
    Caramels, 45
    Caraway Cookies, 178
    Carrot Caramels, 58
    Cherokee Crisp, 129
    Cherry and Almond Confection, 73
    Cherry Foam, 84
    Cherry Foam, Candied, 97
    Cherry Macaroons, 138
    Chestnuts, Candied, 69
    Chocolate Almonds, 63
    Chocolate Arabics, 148
    Chocolate Caramels, 53
    Chocolate Chips, 31
    Chocolate Cream Caramels, 56
    Chocolate Creams, 103
    Chocolate Creams with Fruit Centers, 104
    Chocolate Creams with Nut Centers, 106
    Chocolate Diamonds, 173
    Chocolate Fondant, 25
    Chocolate Fudge, 45
    Chocolate Ginger Drops, 179
    Chocolate Macaroons, 136, 139
    Chocolate Nut Candy, 68
    Chocolate Nut Wafers, 182
    Chocolate Nuts, 158
    Chocolate Pop-Corn Balls, 124
    Chocolate Taffy, 34
    Chocolate Sticks, 166
    Cinnamon Crisps, 165
    Cinnamon Fudge, 50
    Cinnamon Jibb, 32
    Cinnamon Macaroons, 140
    Coating Chocolate Creams, 108
    Cocoanut Bonbons, 110
    Cocoanut Caramels, 53
    Cocoanut Creams, 95
    Cocoanut Drops, 167
    Cocoanut Fruit Drops, 180
    Cocoanut Fudge, 49
    Cocoanut Jumbles, 159
    Cocoanut Macaroons, 137
    Cocoanut Marshmallow Fudge, 51
    Cocoanut Marshmallow Fudge (another variety), 51
    Cocoanut Marshmallows, 141
    Coffee Caramels, 52
    Coffee Fudge, 47
    Coffee Macaroons, 138
    Coloring, 19
    Coriander Cakes, 174
    Crack Stage, 18
    Cream Candies, 93
    Cream Macaroons, 135
    Cream Nut Bars, 67
    Cream Nut Puffs, 176
    Crystallization, 19
    Crystallized Pop-Corn, 127

    DAISY CAKES, 178
    Date Brittle, 32
    Date Delight, 87
    Dates, Fruit Filling, 82
    Dipping Fondant, 117
    Divinity Fudge, 48
    Divinity Fudge, Strawberry, 79
    Divinity Hash, 149

    ENGLISH WAFERS, 169

    FIG BRITTLE, 32
    Fig Favorites, 85
    Fig Fudge, 48
    Flavoring, 19, 20
    Fondant, 23
    Fondant, Dipping, 117
    Franconia Caramels, 57
    French Butter-Scotch, 33
    Frosted Fruit Fudge, 83
    Fruit Bars, 161
    Fruit Bonbons, 113
    Fruit Candies, 77
    Fruit Chocolate Balls, 86
    Fruit Fudge, 49
    Fruit Puffs, 183
    Fruit Rocks, 160
    Fruit Roll, 88
    Fruit, Stuffed with Nuts, 73
    Fruit Tablets, 38
    Fudge, Pop-Corn, 131
    Fudges, 45

    GERMAN GINGER BALLS, 165
    German Wafers, 168
    Ginger Chips, 162
    Ginger Creams, 93
    Ginger Nuts, 164
    Ginger Wafers, 163
    Glac√© Nuts, 70

    HARD BALL STAGE, 18
    Hard Candies, 31
    Hard Crack Stage, 18
    Hickory-Nut Macaroons, 137
    Hodge-Podge Candy, 143
    Honey Peppermint Tablets, 37
    Honeycomb Candy, 146
    Honey Creams, 96
    Horehound Candy, 34
    How to Coat Chocolate Creams, 108
    How to Dip with Fondant, 117

    ICE POP-CORN BALLS, 126
    Ingredients, 16

    JAPANESE WAFERS, 169
    Jasmine Macaroons, 136
    Jelly Cake Candy, 88
    Jelly Caramels, 55
    Jelly Jumbles, 181

    LADY FINGERS, 182
    Layer Fudges, 50
    Lemon Cakes, 172
    Lemon Creams, 94
    Lemon Stick Candy, 35
    Love Diamonds, 171

    MACAROONS, 135
    Maple and Butternut Cream, 68
    Maple Creams, 95
    Maple Delight, 99
    Maple Drops, 162
    Maple Foam, 97
    Maple Fondant, 26
    Maple Nut Wafers, 172
    Maple Panocha, 33
    Maple Pop-Corn Bars, 128
    Maple Sugar Fudge, 46
    Maple Tablets, 37
    Maraschino Drops, 79
    Marmalade Diamonds, 171
    Marshmallow Cakes, 163
    Marshmallow Fruit Fudge, 83
    Marshmallow Fudge, 47
    Marshmallows, 140
    Marzipan Fruit Candies, 81
    Mexican Nut Confection, 72
    Mexican Panocha, 66
    Miscellaneous Cakes, 153
    Miscellaneous Sweets, 135
    Molasses Caramels, 57
    Molasses Pop-Corn Balls, 124
    Molasses Taffy, 35

    NUT BARS, CREAM, 67
    Nut Bonbons, 68, 112
    Nut Candies, 63
    Nut Chocolate Caramels, 54
    Nut Foam Chocolates, 98
    Nut Loaf, 72
    Nut Stuffed Fruit, 73
    Nut Taffy, 35
    Nut Tarts, 184

    ORANGE CAKES, 166
    Orange Marshmallows, 141
    Oriental Bonbons, 118, 148

    PEACH BLOSSOM CAKES, 175
    Peanut Brittle, 65
    Peanut Fudge, 48
    Peanut Jumbles, 159
    Peanut Macaroons, 137
    Peanut Molasses Candy, 71
    Peanut Wafers, 168
    Pear Caramels, 81
    Peppermint Creams, 94
    Peppermint Stick Candy, 36
    Persian Confection, 144
    Pineapple Fudge, 50
    Pineapple Marshmallows, 85
    Pistachio Macaroons, 139
    Pop-Corn Almond Nougat, 130
    Pop-Corn Bars, 128
    Pop-Corn Brittle, 130
    Pop-Corn Dainty, 126
    Pop-Corn Fudge, 131
    Pop-Corn Macaroons, 129
    Pop-Corn Sweets, 123
    Popping Corn, 123
    Potatoes, Candied, 149
    Pralines, 67
    Preserved Fruit Dainties, 181
    Prunes, Stuffed, 87

    QUEEN MACAROONS, 136
    Quince Confection, 79

    RAISIN COOKIES, 170
    Raisin Spirals, 161
    Raisin Stickies, 39
    Rose Nougat, 38

    SALT WATER TAFFY, 40
    Sea Foam Candies, 93
    Snow Pop-Corn Balls, 125
    Soft Ball Stage, 17
    Southern Hazelnut Toffee, 66
    Spice Fingers, 177
    Spice Nuts, 157
    Storing Pop-Corn, 124
    Strawberry Caramels, 55
    Strawberry Divinity Fudge, 79
    Strawberry Drops, 36
    Stuffed Prunes, 87
    Sugar, 16
    Sultana Caramels, 54
    Surprise Dates, 82
    Sweet Potato Balls, Candied, 144

    TAFFY DREAMS WITH NUT CENTERS, 40
    Tea Cookies, 170
    Temperature, 17
    Tests for Temperature, 17
    Thermometers, 14, 17
    Turkish Confection, 145
    Turkish Delight, 147
    Tutti-Frutti Caramels, 57
    Tutti-Frutti Cream, 80

    UTENSILS, 14

    VANILLA CARAMELS, 55
    Vanilla Sea Foam, 96
    Vanilla Sugar Cakes, 179
    Vanilla Taffy, 39
    Vanilla Wafers, 173

    WALNUT BONBONS, 71
    Walnut Creams, 95
    Walnut Wafers, 158
    Watermelon Dainty, 86
    White Nougat, 64
    Wild Rose Cakes, 175




POPULAR HAND-BOOKS


[Illustration: AFTER-DINNER STORIES--HARRISON]

Some books are designed for entertainment, others for information. ¬∂
This series combines both features. The information is not only complete
and reliable, it is compact and readable. In this busy, bustling age it
is required that the information which books contain shall be ready to
hand and be presented in the clearest and briefest manner possible. ¬∂
These volumes are replete with valuable information, compact in form and
unequalled in point of merit and cheapness. They are the latest as well
as the best books on the subjects of which they treat. No one who wishes
to have a fund of general information or who has the desire for
self-improvement can afford to be without them. ¬∂ They are 6 x 4¬Ω inches
in size, well printed on good paper, handsomely bound in green cloth
with a heavy paper wrapper to match.

Cloth, each 50 cents

    THE PENN PUBLISHING COMPANY
    925 Filbert St., Philadelphia


ETIQUETTE

By Agnes H. Morton

There is no passport to good society like good manners. ¬∂ Even though
one possess wealth and intelligence, his success in life may be marred
by ignorance of social customs. ¬∂ A perusal of this book will prevent
such blunders. It is a book for everybody, for the social leaders as
well as for those less ambitious. ¬∂ The subject is presented in a bright
and interesting manner, and represents the latest vogue.


LETTER WRITING

By Agnes H. Morton

Why do most persons dislike to write letters? Is it not because they
cannot say the right thing in the right place? This admirable book not
only shows by numerous examples just what kind of letters to write, but
by directions and suggestions enables the reader to become an
accomplished original letter writer. ¬∂ There are forms for all kinds of
business and social letters, including invitations, acceptances, letters
of sympathy, congratulations, and love letters.


QUOTATIONS

By Agnes H. Morton

A clever compilation of pithy quotations, selected from a great variety
of sources, and alphabetically arranged according to the sentiment. ¬∂ In
addition to all the popular quotations in current use, it contains many
rare bits of prose and verse not generally found in similar collections.
¬∂ One important feature of the book is found in the characteristic lines
from well known authors, in which the familiar sayings are credited to
their original sources.


EPITAPHS

By Frederic W. Unger

Even death has its humorous side. ¬∂ There are said to be "sermons in
stones," but when they are tombstones there is many a smile mixed with
the moral. ¬∂ Usually churchyard humor is all the more delightful because
it is unconscious, but there are times when it is intentional and none
the less amusing. ¬∂ Of epitaphs, old and new, this book contains the
best. It is full of quaint bits of obituary fancy, with a touch of the
gruesome here and there for a relish.


PROVERBS

By John H. Bechtel

The genius, wit, and spirit of a nation are discovered in its proverbs,
and the condensed wisdom of all ages and all nations is embodied in
them. ¬∂ A good proverb that fits the case is often a convincing
argument. ¬∂ This volume contains a representative collection of
proverbs, old and new, and the indexes, topical and alphabetical, enable
one to find readily just what he requires.


THINGS WORTH KNOWING

By John H. Bechtel

Can you name the coldest place in the United States or tell what year
had 445 days? Do you know how soon the coal fields of the world are
likely to be exhausted, or how the speed of a moving train may be told?
What should you do first if you got a cinder in your eye, or your
neighbor's baby swallowed a pin? This unique, up-to-date book answers
thousands of just such interesting and useful questions.


DANCES OF TODAY

By Albert W. Newman

A book from which anyone may learn the modern dances without a teacher.
¬∂ A complete diagram is given for each step, showing exactly where the
feet are placed on the floor at each beat in the music. ¬∂ The many
illustrations are also a help. Among the dances described are the
various Tangoes, One Steps, Bostons and Maxixes, Hesitation Waltzes,
Grape-Vine, Turkey-Trot, Castle Walk, Lame Duck, Texas Tommy and Gaby
Glide.

       *       *       *       *       *

Transcriber's Notes:

Repeated Chapter headers were removed to avoid some redundancy for the
reader.

Page 5, "Panochia" changed to "Panocha" (Mexican Panocha)

Page 52, word "of" removed from text. Original read (half-dozen of
marshmallows)






End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Candy-Making at Home, by Mary M. Wright

